# 2. Packer

In Chapter 7, we went into great detail about each step of the GitHub Actions Workflow that executes Packer to build Virtual Machine Images. Thanks to the nature of Packer’s cloud-agnostic architecture, this overwhelmingly stays the same. The only thing that changes is the final step where we execute Packer.

Because Packer needs to be configured to build a Virtual Machine on Microsoft Azure, we need to pass in different input variables that are Azure-specific. This includes the Microsoft Azure credential attributes, an Azure Region, and an Azure Resource Group Name.

Just as we did with the input variables for the Packer template for AWS, we ensure that all Azure input variables are prefixed with `azure_`. This will help if we ever want to introduce multi-targeting as many cloud platforms will have similar required inputs such as target Region and Virtual Machine size. While most clouds will have similar required inputs, the input values are not interchangeable. 

For example, both Azure and AWS require you to specify the region that you want  Packer to provide the temporary Virtual Machine into and the resulting Virtual Machine Image to be stored. On Azure, the Region has a value of `westus2`, while on AWS, it has a value of `us-west-2`. They are very similar, but they are actually miles apart (pun intended). Azure West US 2 Region is completely different than AWS’s West US 2 Region—in fact, besides just being on different cloud platforms, they are physically different locations, with Azure’s West US 2 Region being located in Washington State and AWS’s West US 2 being located in Oregon. Neighbors, yes, the same thing—hardly. 

This goes back to Packer’s strategy of isolating platform specific configuration within the builders. Therefore, if we are going to do multi-targeting, the AWS plugin is going to need input variables that are AWS-specific and the Azure plugin is going to need input variables that are Azure-specific. Hence, when we merge these plugins into one Packer template, we’ll need input variables for both.

As a result, our `aws_primary_region` with a value of `us-west-2` can sit right next to our `azure_primary_region` with a value of `westus2` without any conflicts or confusion. Likewise, our `aws_instance_type` with a value of `t2.small` can sit right next to our `azure_vm_size` with a value of `Standard_DS2_v2`. The differences can get even more radical as you take advantage of more platform-specific capabilities within the builders.

The GitHub Action Workflow YAML files are identical to Azure, with the exception of the additional input variables that need to be specified. 

	- id: build
	  name: Packer Build
	  env:
	    PKR_VAR_arm_subscription_id: ${{ vars.ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID }}
	    PKR_VAR_arm_tenant_id: ${{ vars.ARM_TENANT_ID }}
	    PKR_VAR_arm_client_id: ${{ vars.PACKER_ARM_CLIENT_ID }}
	    PKR_VAR_arm_client_secret: ${{ secrets.PACKER_ARM_CLIENT_SECRET }}
	    PKR_VAR_image_version: ${{ steps.image-version.outputs.version }}
	    PKR_VAR_agent_ipaddress: ${{ steps.agent-ipaddress.outputs.ipaddress }}
	  working-directory: ${{ env.WORKING_DIRECTORY }}
	  run: |
	    packer init ./
	    packer build -var-file=variables.pkrvars.hcl ./

The above code references the four Azure credential attributes, which are stored as GitHub Actions variables and secrets, and transfers them to Packer using environment variables with the `PKR_VAR_` prefix.