# 2. Patching

When using Terraform there are several places within our code that we will need to make conscious decisions about what versions of what components we want to use. These places include the version of Terraform’s executable, the providers and modules that you use within your configuration.

## Upgrading the Terraform Executable
The first is what version of Terraform we want to use. This may seem surprising—I mean, why wouldn’t you always want to use the latest and greatest version of Terraform? However, there are some pretty important reasons why upgrading the version of Terraform you are using is something you should be careful about when managing existing systems.

The version of Terraform you are using could impact the versions of the providers you are using that are supported, which could result in cascading upgrade requirements that may require you to take on more change in your codebase than you were originally planning. 

While new versions of Terraform often bring exciting new features, capabilities, and bug fixes, they can also bring deprecations and backward incompatibilities. However, this is something that HashiCorp has historically done an excellent job of minimizing the impact of the change, but it is nonetheless something to keep an eye on as it does occasionally happen. The most recent example of where the version of Terraform had major implications was with the version `0.12` of Terraform. In this situation, if you were using the `aws` provider, if you upgraded to version `0.12` of Terraform, you would need to upgrade to version `2.20.0` of the `aws` provider.

The version of Terraform is often referenced in the `required_versions` block of both root modules and reusable modules alike. Therefore, you should also evaluate the upgrade’s implications on your Terraform-managed environments and any modules that you are referencing.

## Upgrading Providers

Like Terraform itself, each of the providers we use to provision resources to various clouds and other platforms has its own version. This compounds the issues we experienced when upgrading Terraform itself across every provider we use within our Terraform solutions. However, most Terraform deployments use the provider for one cloud platform but also might include other providers for different control planes that the solution targets. 

The cloud platforms, in particular, are problematic just because they move so fast and are so far-reaching. For example, the AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud resource providers have over 700, 600, and 400 different resource types, respectively! Now, you probably won’t be using all of those resource types in one of your Terraform solutions, but with so many different resource types in a provider, there is an opportunity for change anytime one of those services adds a new feature. Hence, they change frequently, with new versions of the provider released weekly and sometimes even faster!

It’s a good idea to be purposeful about upgrading the versions of your providers. While you shouldn’t necessarily follow the provider’s weekly release cadence, it’s best not to let the version of your provider stagnate, as this just builds up technical debt until it becomes an emergency. Emergencies can arise in one of two ways. First, you could be leveraging deprecated resources, blocks, or attributes within your configuration that will eventually have their support removed. Second, you might want to take advantage of a new feature or capability of one of the resources you are using, but it’s unsupported in your current version.

## Upgrading Modules

Modules are another place where you need to think about versions. When you reference a module from the Terraform registry you explicitly set the version you want to use. If you are using modules stored in other, less structured locations like Git repositories you should be careful to reference them using a specific tag.

The impact of upgrading a module version, like each of the resource types within a provider, depends on the breaking changes—or lack thereof—within the module’s new version. Sometimes, modules can differ radically between versions, and this can result in a significant negative impact on consumers of such modules that naively upgrade, assuming everything will work out okay. 

For modules, Terraform Plan is usually sufficient to detect if there is major change being introduced but when provider and module version changes overlap it is often a good idea to perform test deployments in order to verify upgrades. This can be done for any type of change you are trying to introduce into the environment.