# 3. For Each

An alternative to `count` is the `for_each` meta-argument, which allows you to create multiple blocks from a `map` collection. This approach can be a distinct improvement over the `count` technique because the order of the items in the collection does not matter—only the key. If you update the code to remove the key, Terraform will remove the corresponding item. If the item changes order with other items in the collection, it will not affect Terraform's plan.

This approach is only possible with a `map` collection as the source of the iteration because, with a `map` collection type, each item must have a key that uniquely identifies it amongst its peers. 

As a result, using `for_each` works well when deploying to multiple regions as typically you wouldn't have more than one deployment in the same region; hence, the region name makes an excellent unique key for the `map` that drives the `for_each` loop. You can add or remove regions without worrying about shifting the index of the items in the collection.

```
	locals {
	
	  regions = {
	    westus = {
	      node_count = 5
	    }
	    eastus = {
	      node_count = 8
	    }
	  }
	
	}
```

Consider the above `map` configuration. Using this as the collection, we can drive any number of resources, data sources, or modules.

```
	module "regional_deployment" {
	
	  for_each = local.regions
	
	  node_count = each.value.node_count
	
	  # the rest of the configuration
	
	}
```

In the above code, we see that we are setting the `for_each` source to be the map stored in `local.regions`. We then can use the `each` prefix anywhere within the module block to access either the key or the value using `each.key` and `each.value`, respectively. No matter the value's type, we can address it how we normally would, using the `each.value` as a reference to the object. 