# 2. Outputs

Output variables are an essential consideration as well. It’s crucial to only output values that you will need. You should avoid putting unnecessary outputs--this is a pretty easy rule to follow within the root module. Still, when authoring reusable modules, it becomes more difficult because it is harder to predict what the consumer of your module will need.

```
	output "foo" {
	  value       = "bar"
	  description = "This is my output for foo"
	}
```

In the above code, we declare an output called `foo` that returns a constant value of `bar`. While this example could be more practical, its simplicity will be instructive. Namely, that output values can be any valid expression in HCL. I draw your attention to this because you will no doubt encounter dozens of examples that output an attribute on a resource, but the output block is much more potent than that. Coupled with all the tools available within HCL—many that we’ll get into later in this chapter—you can construct any value you need. Knowledge of this capability is crucial in enabling you to smooth the edges between how you integrate Terraform and other tools.

It is a good practice to annotate your outputs with a `description` attribute to inform the consumer of your module, whether it is a user using your module via the command line tool or from within another Terraform module, of what you intend the output to be and for and what type of data they can expect.

## Sensitive Data

Sometimes, you may need to output sensitive data such as a password, connection string, or access key. Most Resources will define which attributes are considered sensitive, so Terraform will warn you if necessary.

```
	output "super_secret_password" {
	  value        = "NewEnglandClamChowder"
	  is_sensitive = true
	}
```

In the above code, we annotate our super secret password with the `is_sensitive` attribute to inform Terraform that this is not data that we would like it to shout to the world from the rooftops!