# 2. Kubernetes Manifests

When deploying resources to a Kubernetes cluster, you can either use `kubectl` commands directly to perform operations to provision resources or use YAML manifests to define the desired state of resources and use `kubectl` to execute against these manifests. These two different ways of using `kubectl` parallel the way there are imperative ways to provision resources to cloud platforms like AWS and Azure through their respective command-line applications and the way Terraform provisions the desired state of resources during `terraform apply`.

When you're using `kubectl` commands directly, you're giving the instructions right away in the command line. For example, if you want to create a deployment, you might issue a command like this:

	kubectl run nginx --image=nginx

In this case, `kubectl` will create a Deployment for `nginx` with mostly default settings, and it will do so immediately.

This method can be useful for quick, one-off creations or when you need to make an immediate change.

When using YAML manifests, you're writing the desired state of your resources in a declarative manner. For example, a Deployment might be written like this in a YAML file:

	apiVersion: apps/v1
	kind: Deployment
	metadata:
	  name: nginx-deployment
	spec:
	  replicas: 3
	  selector:
	    matchLabels:
	      app: nginx
	  template:
	    metadata:
	      labels:
	        app: nginx
	    spec:
	      containers:
	      - name: nginx
	        image: nginx:1.14.2
	        ports:
	        - containerPort: 80

You would then use `kubectl` to apply this file, like so:

	kubectl apply -f my-deployment.yaml

This tells Kubernetes to make the cluster's actual state match the desired state described in the file.

The benefit of this approach is that the file serves as a source of truth for the resource configuration. The files can be version-controlled, making it easy to track changes, roll back if needed, and reuse configurations.

Generally, it's considered a best practice to manage your Kubernetes resources using configuration files, especially in production environments. That being said, direct `kubectl` commands are useful for debugging and quick prototyping tasks, but you should consider using a declarative approach to manage resources in the long term.

## Deployment Manifest

When creating an application in Kubernetes, you use a Deployment to specify how you want it to be configured. Kubernetes will then automatically adjust the current state of the application to match your desired configuration.

	apiVersion: apps/v1
	kind: Deployment
	metadata:
	  name: my-app
	spec:
	  replicas: 3
	  selector:
	    matchLabels:
	      app: my-app
	  template:
	    metadata:
	      labels:
	        app: my-app
	    spec:
	      containers:
	      - name: my-app
	        image: my-app:1.0
	        ports:
	        - containerPort: 8080

This Deployment manifest describes a desired state that includes running three instances (or replicas) of the application `my-app`.

## Service Manifest

A Service is a method of grouping a collection of pods that form an application, allowing them to be presented as a network service.

	apiVersion: v1
	kind: Service
	metadata:
	  name: my-service
	spec:
	  selector:
	    app: my-app
	  ports:
	    - protocol: TCP
	      port: 80
	      targetPort: 8080

This Service manifest will create a network service that will route traffic to the my-app pods on port 8080.
