# 3. Generating CloudInit Configuration

Cloud Init is an open-source multi-platform tool for providing startup configuration to cloud-hosted Virtual Machines. It configures the new instance using metadata from the cloud and user data. For example, you can set the hostname, set up users and groups, mount and format disks, install packages, and run custom scripts.

## Basic Usage

Sometimes, you can use data sources to generate content rather than talk to an external system. The `cloudinit_config` is a perfect example of this. It is designed with a schema to help simplify generating the sometimes verbose Cloud-Init configuration file passed as input to newly created Virtual Machines.

Cloud-Init supports several different part types. Each type infers a different schema and format for passing in content, sometimes using JSON, YAML, bash scripts, or raw text. The full scope of what Cloud-Init can do is out of the scope of this book, but I'd encourage you to look into the online documentation for further details. I'll cover a few everyday use cases to see how you can use your existing Cloud-Init knowledge and apply it while using the `cloudinit` Terraform provider.

```
	data "cloudinit_config" "foo" {
	  gzip          = false
	  base64_encode = false
	}
```

To attach the output as user data to a new EC2 instance on AWS, we would use the code below:

```
	resource "aws_instance" "web" {
	
	  # other ec2 attributes
	
	  user_data = data.cloudinit_config.foo.rendered
	
	}
```

## 3. Loading External Content

When you have a large amount of external content you want to download to the instance, you can use `x-include-url` and `x-include-once-url`. 

```
	data "cloudinit_config" "foo" {
	  gzip          = false
	  base64_encode = false
	
	  part {
	    content_type = "text/x-include-url"
	    content      = "http://foo.com/bar.sh"
	  }
	}
```

## 4. Using Custom Scripts

When you want to execute custom scripts stored within the Terraform module directory, you can use several different part types to run the scripts under other conditions.

- `x-shellscript`: This script will run whenever the instance is booted. That is, it will execute every time your instance starts up, whether it is the first boot after creation or a subsequent reboot.
- `x-shellscript-per-boot`: This is the same as `x-shellscript`. It will also run on every boot of the instance.
- `x-shellscript-per-instance`: This script will run only once per instance. That is, the script will run on the first boot after the instance is created but will not run on subsequent reboots. This part is helpful for initialization tasks that only need to be done once for each instance, such as setting up software or users that persist across reboots.
- `x-shellscript-per-once`: This script will run only once across all instances. If you create multiple instances with the same script, this script will only run on the first instance that boots. This part is helpful for tasks that only need to be done once in a set of instances, such as setting up a database or a leader node in a cluster.

Consider the following script, which is stored in a bash script file called `foo.sh` in the Terraform module’s root folder.

```
	#!/bin/bash
	sudo apt-get update -y
	sudo apt-get install nginx -y
	echo '<h1>Hello from Terraform Cloud-Init!</h1>' | sudo tee /var/www/html/index.html
```

We can embed this in a `cloudinit_config` data source to generate the user data we pass to a newly created Virtual Machine.

```
	data "cloudinit_config" "foo" {
	  gzip          = false
	  base64_encode = false
	
	  part {
	    content_type = "text/x-shellscript"
	    content      = file("${path.module}/foo.sh")
	  }
	}
```

## 5. Cloud Config Files

Cloud-Init supports a custom schema for performing various everyday tasks. Several different part types are supported, enabling you to include Cloud Config data in multiple formats in your Cloud-Init packages.

- `cloud-config`: This is the most commonly used content type for standard cloud-init YAML configuration files. You can use the cloud-config content type for general-purpose instance configuration tasks, such as setting up users and groups, managing packages, running commands, and writing files.
- `cloud-config-archive`: This content type provides multiple cloud-config parts in a single file. A cloud-config-archive file is a YAML file that contains a list of cloud-config parts, where each part is a map containing a filename, content type, and the content itself. You should use this when applying multiple cloud-config files in a specific order. Their order in the list influences when they are applied.
- `cloud-config-jsonp`: This content type allows you to write JSONP responses. JSONP (JSON with Padding) is commonly used to bypass web browser cross-domain policies. You might use this content type if you’re writing a web app that needs to interact with a server on a different domain and uses JSONP to circumvent the same-origin policy.

The full capabilities of Cloud Config are beyond the scope of this book, but I encourage you to explore them in more detail through online documentation.

```
	#cloud-config
	groups:
	  - bar
	users:
	  - name: foo
	    groups: sudo, bar
	    shell: /bin/bash
	    sudo: ['ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL']
	    ssh_authorized_keys:
	      - ssh-rsa your-public-key
```

We can embed this in a `cloudinit_config` data source to generate the user data we pass to a newly created Virtual Machine.

```
	data "cloudinit_config" "foo" {
	  gzip          = false
	  base64_encode = false
	
	  part {
	    content_type = "text/cloud-config"
	    content      = file("${path.module}/users.yaml")
	  }
	}
```
