# 1. Overview

Our story continues through the lens of Söze Enterprises, founded by the enigmatic Turkish billionaire Keyser Söze. Our team has been hard at work building the next-generation Autonomous Vehicle orchestration platform. Our initial strategy involved minimizing change to allow the team to focus on driving features into our product. However, our elusive CEO had other ideas and pushed us to adopt container technology to make our product more flexible and scalable going forward. Working with Keyser, there is never a dull moment, but managing such radical change so quickly can be frustrating.

Meanwhile, in St. Barts, with the sun setting over the Caribbean and the cocktail party in full swing, Keyser has a chance encounter at the bar with Mark Russinovich, the CTO of Microsoft Azure. They immediately hit it off, chatting over mojitos. When Mark gets a glimpse of Keyser’s immense vision for the Autonomous Vehicle platform, he casually suggests that maybe Keyser shouldn’t concern himself with infrastructure at all. Mark explains how leveraging Azure Functions and other serverless offerings could free him from the shackles of infrastructure management, allowing him to focus entirely on his grand vision.

Thanks to Mark’s insights and Keyser's whimsical decision-making, our team veers deeper into Microsoft Azure, explicitly transitioning from Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) to Azure Functions for serverless computing. This might require a complete re-think of our application architecture, but it could free us from the significant operational overhead of managing low-level infrastructure.