# 3. String Functions

String functions operate on objects of type `string`. Like the Numeric functions, the usual suspects are present. 

There are several functions related to string manipulation like `split`, `replace`, and `join`.

## Split
The `split` function can be helpful when working with comma-delimited values that you might pass in as input variables. You can use input variables of type `string`, to pass in a collection of values. Using Environment Variables or command line arguments makes it difficult to reliably pass in complex structures like `list`, `map`, or `object`. Therefore, it is widespread to simplify those complex structures into multiple comma-delimited `string` input variables.

Several functions are for cleansing data of unnecessary whitespaces, which can occur when you do string manipulation.

## Format
The `format` function can be a cleaner way to perform string manipulation without really nasty string interpolation—which can degrade the readability of your code with all the extra `${}` added to separate object tokens.

```
	locals {
	  foo = "rg-${var.fizz}${var.buzz}${var.wizz}"
	}
```

You can replace the above code with this:

```
	locals {
	  foo = format("rg-%s%s%s, var.fizz, var.buzz, var.wizz)
	}
```

The values `fizz`, `buzz`, and `wizz` are passed into the corresponding `%s`. The `%s` is a token to inject values passed in with specific formatting instructions. There are different verbs for different data types and formatting options.

A variant of this function called `formatlist` does the same thing but instead operates on a `list(string)`. It is a convenience function that avoids the additional complexity of wrapping a `format` function in a `for` expression. 

## Replace

The `replace` function is another commonly used String function. Many cloud services have particular requirements for naming conventions, so `replace` is very useful when you want to cleanse your names of invalid characters when naming conditions are incongruent across different services.

```
	locals {
	  full_name = "foo-bar"
	}
```

For example, Azure Storage Accounts do not allow hyphens in their names, while Azure Resource Groups do. Therefore, if you pass in an input variable to set a common prefix across all your resources and include a hyphen, you will run into trouble when Terraform attempts to provision the Azure Storage Account. 

```
	locals {
	  storage_account_name = replace(local.full_name, "-", "")
	}
```

Replace can be used to eliminate this naming convention faux pax quickly. 