# 6. Filesystem Functions

Filesystem functions provide a set of utilities that make it easier working with local files which can come in extremely handy if you need to drop a config file for the next step in your automation pipeline or if you need to access files containing content needed for resource provisioning.

## File
The `file` function simply loads the contents from the file at the specified path on disk into a `string`. The `path.module` special variable is used to specify the current working directory of the current module. This is useful during module development because it allows you to embed and use files to store content needed within your module.

```
locals {
  template_content = file("${path.module}/template.json")
}
```

This method is commonly used in conjunction with `jsondecode` and `yamldecode` functions to take the string content and convert it into an object that can be used more easily within HCL.

```
locals {
  template = jsondecode(
    file("${path.module}/template.json")
  )
}
```

## Template File

The `templatefile` function works just like the `file` function but with a twist. It allows you to pass in parameters to be replaced with corresponding placeholders in the file specified.

```
locals {
  template = jsondecode(
    templatefile(
      "${path.module}/template.json",
      {
        hostname   = "foo"
        ip_address = "10.0.1.8"
      }
    )
  )
}
```

The parameters of `hostname` and `ip_address` indicate the tokens that should be replaced in the file with their corresponding values `foo` and `10.0.1.8` respectively. If the contents of the file contain the tokens `${hostname}` or `${ip_address}` they will be replaced with the corresponding value. This can be a very convenient way to drop important configuration details into your infrastructure that is only available after Terraform has executed its plan.