# 9. IP Network Functions

The IP Network functions make it easier to work with CIDR blocks to split address spaces into subnets.

Although Terraform’s networking functions support IPv4 and IPv6, we’ll look at IPv4 addresses in our examples to make it easier to understand.

An IPv4 Address is a 32-bit value with 4 octets and 8 bits per octet. We construct CIDR blocks to identify a range of IP addresses to allocate to a Virtual Network or a Subnet within that Virtual Network.

Terraform the `cidrsubnet` function, which calculates these CIDR block ranges, making it easier to generate CIDR block ranges dynamically rather than hard coding them or using string manipulation to construct them.

```
cidrsubnet(prefix, newbits, netnum)
```

The `prefix` argument is the network space you want to split up. The `newbits` argument is how big of chunks we want the prefix split into—its value has an inverse relationship with the size of the address space chunks. As the `newbits` value goes up, the size of the chunks decreases. As the value of `newbits` goes down, the size of the chunks increases. 

```
locals {
  cidr_block_start    = "10.0.0.0/16"
  cidr_chunk_size     = 8
  cidr_block_list     = range(0, 4)
  dynamic_cidr_blocks = [for i in local.cidr_block_list : cidrsubnet(local.cidr_block_start, local.chunk_size, i)]
}
```

In the above code, we are splitting up the address space of `10.0.0.0/16` with chunks that have eight (8) additional bits. That means we are looking for chunks with the size of `/24`—or 256 IP addresses. If we used six (6) instead, we would be looking to split into chunks of `/22`—or 1024 IP addresses. As you can see, the fewer additional bits, the more IP addresses in each chunk, and the fewer chunks we can fit into the primary address space.

```
resource "aws_subnet" "subnet" {
  count      = 4
  cidr_block = cidrsubnet(var.cidr, local.chunk_size, count.index)
}
```

In the above code, we can use this function to construct the address space for each subnet within an AWS VPC. Thanks to the `count` meta-argument, we don’t need the `for` expression to construct a list of address spaces. We can use the `count.index` to specify the `netnum` input to select which chunk we want our subnet to use.