# 2. Docker Hub

The mechanics of interacting with a container registry are broadly similar depending on the service—with only slight variations. As an example, because it is the default container registry that Docker uses, I'll show you how to use Docker Hub to authenticate, tag, push, and pull your images.

First, you need to authenticate. Depending on your registry service, this step might require additional tools. However, you won’t need to install any other tools for Docker Hub but, naturally, you will need to register an account on Docker Hub.

	docker login

The above command will initiate an interactive login process where you must supply your Docker Hub username and password.

Before you can push your image to a registry, you must tag it with the registry's address.

	docker tag foo:1.0 markti/foo:1.0

The above command first specifies the source image `my-image` of a specific version `1.0`. Then it specifies a target image under my DockerHub account `markti` for the same image and version. It's crucial to synchronize the image name and version between your local and remote environments to maintain consistency between the environments. After your image is tagged, you can push it to the registry.

	docker push markti/foo:1.0

The above command pushes the image to the remote container registry. Now, you can pull the image with the appropriate permissions using your DockerHub username as the registry name, the container image name, and the tag.

	docker pull markti/foo:1.0

Remember that container registries might have slightly different naming conventions and authentication processes. 