
# INIT

This is an important command and probably the first one you will ever execute when working with Terraform. The reason is that Terraform works within a working directory instead of other tools that operate on a single file (like ARM or CloudFormation) or an entry point file (like Ansible). Terraform also relies on hidden directories to load important context about the Workspace. This approach is very similar to how Git works when you clone a repository. Therefore, we must allow Terraform to set things up so that everything it needs is in the right place and makes itself home. The `terraform init` command does just that.

```
	terraform init
```

Terraform Initialize Command accomplishes a few things: 

1. Provider Installation
2. Module Installation
3. Backend Initialization

## Provider Installation

First, it analyzes the directory and searches for provider declarations and downloads and installs those providers. It doesn't connect to the providers, so a successful `init` doesn't indicate that your provider credentials are good. It suggests that the providers and specific versions of those providers you specified exist, and it installs them. As an extension of Terraform, each Provider is just a Golang executable that Terraform interfaces with. Therefore, Terraform needs to download and stage that executable somewhere to know where to execute it when the time comes.

Each Provider's binary is downloaded and stored in the hidden directories created during the `init` process. These hidden directories and their contents enable other Terraform operations to function. Still, they are not files that need special protection, so you should not be too concerned if you delete them accidentally--or with purpose. To bring them back, one must rerun `init`, and Terraform will re-generate them like before.

## Module Installation

Second, it analyzes the working directory and searches for module declarations within the codebase. It then downloads and installs those modules from their respective source locations. It doesn't matter if you reference modules using a relative path or a remote GitHub repository; a local copy of the module folder will be downloaded and stored in the hidden directories that Terraform uses for execution. Like the provider binaries, these module files must be there for future Terraform operations to succeed. Again, just like the Provider binaries, these files do not require protection as Terraform will also bring them back with a single call to `terraform init`. 

If you are developing reusable modules, you are most likely simultaneously using those modules in a root module that you use to test them. You run `terraform init` on the root module's folder, and that root module references your reusable module. It's important to note that if you change your module, simply rerunning `init` will not automatically bring in those updates. If the version of the module reference has stayed the same, Terraform will check the folder in which it loaded the modules and see that it has already downloaded that module version. To force it to download a new copy of your modules, you will need to either increment the version of the module (which can be tedious during module development) or manually clear the modules by deleting them from the `.terraform` directory.

## Backend Initialization

Lastly, Terraform will look for a `backend` block within your `terraform` block of your working directory's `.tf` files. Most backends require some configuration settings to work. Ultimately, a Terraform Backend provides a location for the Terraform State File, so these configuration settings guide the Terraform Backend on how to get to the Terraform State File.

For example, to use the AzureRM backend, you must specify a way to triangulate to the correct Azure Blob Storage Account Container State File. Terraform will pass several landmarks along the way on the journey that Terraform takes to get to the location of the desired state file. First, the Resource Group where the Storage Account lives, then the Storage Account where the Storage Container lives, then the Storage Container where the state file lives, and finally, the name of the state file, which Terraform locates using the `key` and the current Terraform Workspace name.

A fully populated Terraform Backend configuration for Azure would use the `key` and the current Terraform Workspace name.

A fully populated Terraform Backend configuration for Azure would look like this:

```
	terraform {
	  backend "azurerm" {
	    resource_group_name  = "rg-foo"
	    storage_account_name = "stfoo"
	    container_name       = "tfstate"
	    key                  = "foo.tfstate"
	  }
	}
```

The Azure Backend will use `resource_group_name`, `storage_account_name`, and `container_name` to get to the place on Azure where files are stored. Then `key` and the workspace name are used to formulate the name of the state file. If you are using the default Workspace, then the name of the state file will be the value of the `key`. However, if you use a named workspace, the Azure Backend will generate a state file name that looks like `foo.tfstate:env:prod` for a workspace named `prod`.

Each Terraform Backend plugin will have a different strategy for reading and writing state files and its logic for generating the state file name where the state is ultimately stored. Getting to know your Provider, the available Backend, and how to configure it is essential. 