# WORKSPACE

Terraform `workspace` is about creating forks of the same terraform solution to have different instances or forks of the terraform state. Just like in source code, when you create a fork, the idea is that you will modify the code, and those modifications will remain long-term. Therefore, you may never merge the newly forked code base into the main branch.

Whether you realize it or not, you are using Terraform Workspaces. You just aren’t using a custom-named workspace. You can find this out by running the `terraform workspace show` command, which will say `default`. 

Creating a new workspace for each long-lived environment is a good idea—even if you plan on segmenting your backend.

Running `terraform workspace new dev` will create a new workspace for your Development environment. You can run the same command for your production environment, such as `terraform workspace new prod`. From then on, any Terraform operation that utilizes the state will use the state file for the selected workspace. You can change back and forth between these state files by changing the workspace like this: `terraform workspace select dev` or `terraform workspace select prod`. 

With workspaces, you might create a workspace to test something out with the intent of eventually making those same updates in the original workspace.

Workspaces represent utterly different environments because the dev environment will always differ slightly from the test, staging, or production environments. These environments will live in isolated workspaces and have the same isolation within their state file. 

The common thread is that the workspaces work off the same codebase. The idea is that you will have the same codebase and deploy multiple environments with it—most likely long-lived environments, but not necessarily so. 
