# PLAN

Terraform plan is a read-only operation that requires access to your backend state and requires you to have executed `terraform init` prior. Also, if you use a non-default workspace, you should select your Workspace before you run `plan`. `terraform workspace select` allows you to do that.

Terraform plan will perform a read-only operation, checking the state file and checking in with every resource in the state file. This process can take a while, depending on how many resources are in your state file and how long it takes for the provider to get a response from whoever it’s talking to. So, to keep your Terraform projects lean and fast, consider how much scope you want to keep within a single Terraform workspace.

You may consider splitting those chunks into sub-workspaces if it’s too big. I’ve seen projects where an entire solution is in one terraform state file, and it takes 45 minutes to run a plan. Having too broad workspace isolation can be extremely painful, and I would highly advise you to consider the boundaries of the components of your system and organize your terraform workspaces so that you have smaller, semi-dependent workspaces. It’s okay to have dependencies between workspaces. Still, you need to call out those dependencies using data sources so that you don’t get into a situation where you can make a circular reference between two terraform workspaces.

Terraform needs you to set all your input variables before you can run the `plan` operation. You can do this in three ways: Individual Command Line Argument, Variable File, and Environment Variables. 

Individual Command Line Argument is helpful for small projects with interactive command line sessions. Still, it quickly becomes unmanageable when the environment grows more complex, or you want to use a pipeline tool—a scenario on which we will spend the bulk of this book.

The Environment Variable approach is instrumental in the pipeline tool approach because it allows you to execute Terraform commands without modifying the arguments to the command you run.