# 3. Configuration & Secrets

One of the key areas where Terraform and Kubernetes will likely interact is the area of Configuration and Secrets. This is because, quite often, Terraform is provisioning the other resources that will supply endpoint URLs, authentication credentials, logging, or identity configuration. Therefore, it’s important to understand what Kubernetes resources should be used to connect these configuration settings to the appropriate place in your Kubernetes deployments.

## ConfigMaps
A ConfigMap is a special kind of Kubernetes resource that can be used to provide non-sensitive configuration to a pod. The configuration is stored as a set of key-value pairs, which can be used to configure either Environment Variables for containers or command-line arguments for an application that you want to run inside the container.

A pod can reference one or more ConfigMap objects, and then the application can reference the keys in the key-value pairs to obtain their values. This creates a separation of the application, which is running in the Pod, from the configuration, which is stored in a ConfigMap. This means that the same ConfigMap can be used by more than one Pod specification.

By default, only other Pods within the same namespace can access ConfigMaps. If you want more granular security, you can apply for role-based access control.

## Secrets

While Kubernetes does have an internal method for storing secrets and making them available to your pods, when you are deploying to the cloud, you will often use a cloud-specific secret provider instead. There are a number of advantages to leveraging an external secret store. First, with an external secret store, you would have more centralized management, which would make it easier for operators to manage the environment. Second, most external secret providers offer features and capabilities that the built-in secret storage in Kubernetes doesn’t have, such as the ability to version and rotate secrets. Lastly, offloading secret storage reduces the burden on the “etcd” database on the cluster, thus freeing up more resources for the workloads running in your pods.

When you leverage an external secret store, Terraform will likely be provisioning it along with the secrets that your Pods will need. In order to take advantage of an external secret store, you will need to provision a SecretProviderClass that is specific to the external secret store you plan on using. It will provide a bridge between your Pods and the secrets you store there. There are often platform native configurations depending on the cloud platform you are using to configure this provider. Most managed Kubernetes service offerings provide built-in support for the corresponding secret storage service and streamline the authentication and authorization required for your Pods to access the secrets.

In this book, we will be working with the Managed Kubernetes offerings of three cloud platforms: Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) and Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).