# 2. Import Command

The import command allows you to import an existing resource that has already been provisioned outside of Terraform by some other means.

	terraform import [options] ADDRESS ID

The Terraform import command [^1] takes two key parameters. The various options are out of the scope of this book. I recommend you check the documentation for more details on all the available options. 

The first parameter, the address of the resource within the Terraform codebase, is crucial. It’s the same reference we use to access resources in our Terraform workspace. Unlike when we’re in the HashiCorp Configuration Language codebase, we’re not limited by the current Terraform module’s scope. The address follows your Terraform provider’s naming convention. For instance, you’d need the resource type and object reference to import a virtual machine.

The second parameter is the resource’s unique identifier on the target cloud platform. This unique identifier will look very different between different clouds. In the next section, we’ll look at how this differs for each cloud platform.

The import command is great for individual resources that might have failed due to transient issues during a `terraform apply`. If you had to import an entire solution it would be extremely tedious to put together import command for every resource. Even a simple virtual machine might consist of a dozen or so resources.

[^1]:	HashiCorp Documentation: Terraform Import Command (https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import)