# 4. Importing Multiple Resources

The Import Command and the Import Block support importing resources using the `for_each` and `count` meta-argument. 

To import resources provisioned with a `for_each` block, you simply need to define a `map` with the unique identifiers for the resources you wish to import.

	locals {
	  resources = {
	    "zone1" = "ID-for-zone1"
	    "zone2" = "ID-for-zone2"
	  }
	}

 The Import Block’s unique identifier will come from this `map` you define. Then, use a matching `for_each` in the import block, which references your resource block using the same `map` and references the corresponding resource using `each.key`.

	import {
	  for_each = local.resources
	  to = ADDRESS[each.key]
	  id = each.value
	}

Likewise, when importing resources provisioned using the `count` meta-argument, we must declare an array with unique identifiers.

locals {
	  resources = [
	    "ID-for-zone1",
	    "ID-for-zone2"
	  ]
	}

Finally, we can use the `count` meta-argument on the import block and iterate across it just as we do with the resource block.

	import {
	  count = length(local.resources)
	  to = ADDRESS[count.index]
	  id = local.resources[count.index]
	}

Using the Import Command is a bit more difficult. You’ll need to execute a `terraform import` command for each item within the map, referencing the correct `key` and mapping it to the corresponding value. 

	terraform import 'ADDRESS["key"]' ID

A similar technique is used for importing resources that are provisioned using count.

	terraform import 'ADDRESS[index]' ID

When working with `for_each` provisioned resources, we need to execute the `terraform import` command for each item within the array and manually correlate the index with the correct unique identifier.

Although it is technically possible through some pretty advanced bash scripting, the recommended approach is to use the Import Block within the HashiCorp Configuration Language, as this is much easier and less error-prone to implement.