# 2. Docker

As we saw in the previous chapter where we built virtual machine images in packer there is a certain amount of Operating System configuration that needs to be setup. With Docker, we are doing largely the same thing but we are doing it for a specific process. This means much of the work that we did in setting up the service in Linux is eliminated because the container runtime controls when the application is running or not. This is fundamentally different than configuring the Linux Operating System to run an executable as a service. As a result, much of this boilerplate is eliminated.

Another major differences is that with the Packer image, we build the application outside of Packer and we drop a zipped artifact containing the application as part of the Packer build. With Docker, we'll actually build the application and produce the artifact within the container build process. After this process is complete we'll follow a similar process where we drop the deployment package into a clean container image layer to eliminate any residual build artifacts.

```Dockerfile
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:6.0 AS build-env
WORKDIR /app
```

This line sets the base image for the build stage. It uses the official Microsoft .NET SDK image (version 6.0) from the Microsoft Container Registry (MCR).

```Dockerfile
COPY ./FleetPortal/FleetPortal.csproj ./FleetPortal/
RUN dotnet restore ./FleetPortal/FleetPortal.csproj
```

Before we build the project we need to resolve its dependencies. The `dotnet restore` will do this by pulling all the dependencies from Nuget (the .NET package manager).

```Dockerfile
COPY . ./
RUN dotnet publish ./FleetPortal/FleetPortal.csproj -c Release -o out
```

We execute the `dotnet publish` command which creates the binaries for the project. The `-c Release` option specifies that the build should be optimized for production and we drop the files into the `out` folder to be picked up by a future step.

```Dockerfile
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspnet:6.0
WORKDIR /app
COPY --from=build-env /app/out .
```

We start a new build stage with the .NET runtime image as the base and we copy the binaries that we built from the previous stage to this new one. This will ensure that any intermediate build artifacts are not layered into the container image.

```Dockerfile
ENTRYPOINT ["dotnet", "FleetPortal.dll"]
```

Finally, we set the startup command for the container. When the container starts, it will run `dotnet FleetPortal.dll`, which starts our ASP.NET application which will start listening for incoming web server traffic.