# 2. Packer

In Chapter 7, we go into great detail about each step of the GitHub Actions Workflow that executes Packer to build Virtual Machine Images. Thanks to the nature of Packer’s cloud-agnostic architecture, this overwhelmingly stays the same. The only thing that changes is the final step where we execute Packer.

Because Packer needs to be configured to build a Virtual Machine on Google Cloud, we need to pass in different input variables that are Google Cloud-specific. This includes the file path to the Google Cloud credential file, an Google Cloud Region, and an Google Cloud Project ID.

Just as we did with the input variables for the Packer template for AWS, we ensure that all Google Cloud input variables are prefixed with `gcp_`. This will help if we ever want to introduce multi-targeting as many cloud platforms will have similar required inputs such as target Region and Virtual Machine size. While most clouds will have similar required inputs, the input values are not interchangeable. 

For example, each cloud platform will require you to specify the region that you want  Packer to provide the temporary Virtual Machine into and the resulting Virtual Machine Image to be stored. On Google Cloud, the region has a value of `us-west2-a`, as we saw with Azure and AWS, and each cloud platform will have slightly different region names that are infuriatingly similar. 

Google Cloud does have a major difference in the way credentials are usually specified. Whereas AWS and Azure usually have particular environment variables that will house context and credentials, Google Cloud uses a file. As a result, before we run Packer we need to ensure that the Google Cloud secret file has been dropped at a well known location so that our Packer action can pick it up.

	- name: Create Secret File
	  env:
	    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS }}
	  working-directory: ${{ env.WORKING_DIRECTORY }}
	  run: |
	    # Create a local file with the secret value
	    echo -n "$GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS" > gcp.json

The GitHub Action Workflow YAML files are identical for Google Cloud, with the exception of the use of a single input variables that is needed to specify the path to the credential file `gcp.json`. 

	- id: build
	  name: Packer Build
	  env:
	    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: "gcp.json"
	    PKR_VAR_gcp_project_id: ${{ vars.GOOGLE_PROJECT }}
	    PKR_VAR_image_version: ${{ steps.image-version.outputs.version }}
	    PKR_VAR_agent_ipaddress: ${{ steps.agent-ipaddress.outputs.ipaddress }}
	  working-directory: ${{ env.WORKING_DIRECTORY }}
	  run: |
	    packer init ./
	    packer build -var-file=variables.pkrvars.hcl ./

The above code references the secret file we created from the GitHub Actions secret. The Google Cloud Plugin for Packer will use the environment variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` to load the secret file to authenticate with Google Cloud.