# 3. Terraform

With both of our Virtual Machine Images built and their versions input into our `tfvars` file, our Terraform automation pipeline is ready to take the reigns and not only provision our environment but deploy our solution as well (although not technically). The deployment was technically done within the packer build process, with the physical deployment packages being copied to the home directory and the Linux service setup primed and ready. Terraform is finishing the job by actually launching Virtual Machines using these images.

In Chapter 7, we go into great detail about each step of the GitHub Actions Workflow that executes Terraform to provision the Cloud Environment and deploy the Application Code. Thanks to the nature of Terraform’s cloud-agnostic architecture, this overwhelmingly stays the same. The only thing that changes is the final step where we execute Terraform.

Just like we did in Chapters 7 and 8 with the AWS and Azure providers, we need to set the authentication context using environment variables that are specific to the `google` provider. In this case, the single `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`  attribute is passed to connect the provider with how it should authenticate with Terraform to provision the environment. 

	- name: Create Secret File for Terraform
	  env:
	    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS }}
	  working-directory: ${{ env.WORKING_DIRECTORY }}
	  run: |
	    # Create a local file with the secret value
	    echo -n "$GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS" > gcp-terraform.json

The above code generates the necessary secret file for Terraform to authenticate with Google Cloud to provision the environment.

Just like we did in Chapters 7 and 8 with the AWS and Azure providers, we need to configure the Google Cloud-specific backend that stores Terraform state using the `-backend-config` command line arguments to the `terraform init` command. The additional `GOOGLE_BACKEND_CREDENTIALS ` informs Terraform how to authenticate with the Google Cloud Storage backend that we are using to store Terraform State.

	- name: Create Secret File for Backend
	  env:
	    GOOGLE_BACKEND_CREDENTIALS: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_BACKEND_CREDENTIALS }}
	  working-directory: ${{ env.WORKING_DIRECTORY }}
	  run: |
	    # Create a local file with the secret value
	    echo -n "$GOOGLE_BACKEND_CREDENTIALS" > gcp-backend.json

The above code generates the necessary secret file for Terraform to authenticate with Google Cloud to store and retrieve Terraform State for the environment.

Unlike with the AWS and Azure providers—and highlighting how significantly the Terraform backend implementations can diverge—the backend uses a “prefix” and the Terraform Workspace name to uniquely identify the location to store state files.

	- id: plan
	  name: Terraform Apply
	  env:
	    GOOGLE_BACKEND_CREDENTIALS: gcp-backend.json
	    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: gcp-terraform.json
	    BACKEND_BUCKET_NAME: ${{ vars.BACKEND_BUCKET_NAME }}
	    TF_VAR_gcp_project: ${{ vars.GOOGLE_PROJECT }}
	  working-directory: ${{ env.WORKING_DIRECTORY }}
	  run: |
	    terraform init \
	      -backend-config='bucket='$BACKEND_BUCKET_NAME \
	      -backend-config="prefix=gcp-vm-sample"
	
	    terraform apply -auto-approve

Notice how, like with the Azure solution, we don’t need to perform a targeted `terraform apply`. This is because we don’t need to do dynamic calculations based on the number of Availability Zones in the region to configure our Virtual Network.

These subtle architectural differences between the cloud platforms can create radical structural changes even when deploying the exact same solution using the exact same technologies. It is a sobering reminder that while knowledge of the core concepts we looked at in Chapters 4 through 6 will help us transcend to a multi-cloud point-of-view, in order to implement practical solutions, we need to understand the subtle nuances of each platform.