# 2. Packer

We go into great detail on how we implement our Packer templates provisioners to install our .NET Application Code onto a Linux Virtual Machine. If you skipped Chapters 7 through 9 due to a lack of interest in Amazon Web Services (AWS), I can’t hold that against you—particularly if your primary interest in reading this book is working on the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. However, I would encourage you to review the corresponding section within Chapter 7 to see how we use Packer’s Provisioners to configure a Debian-based Linux Virtual Machine with our .NET Application Code.

## Azure Plugin

As we discussed in Chapter 4, Packer—like Terraform—is an extensible command line executable. Each cloud platform provides its own plugin for Packer that encapsulates the integration with its services.

	packer {
	  required_plugins {
	    azure = {
	      source  = "github.com/hashicorp/azure"
	      version = "~> 2.0.0"
	    }
	  }
	}

In Chapter 7, we saw how to declare the Packer Plugin for AWS as a required Plugin. The above code, demonstrates how to instead declare the Azure’s plugin—which at the time of writing, the latest version was 2.0.0.

The Azure plugin for Packer provides an `azure-arm` builder that will generate Azure Virtual Machine Images by creating a new Virtual Machine from a base image, executing the provisioners, taking a snapshot of the Azure Managed Disk and creating an Azure Managed Image from it. Like the AWS plugin, this behavior is encapsulated within the Azure builder.

Just as the plugin for AWS encapsulated the logic to build Virtual Machines on AWS and its configuration was in AWS-centric terminology, so does the Azure plugin encapsulate all the logic to build Virtual Machines on Azure, and its configuration is in Azure-centric terminology. Packer does not try to create a standard builder interface across cloud platforms—rather, it isolates the cloud-specific configuration within the builders. This keeps things simple for users who know the target platform well and allows the builder to take advantage of any platform-specific features without additional layers of complexity by trying to rationalize the syntax across every platform. 

As a result, the structure of the AWS and Azure builders is radically different in almost every way—from how they authenticate to how they look at marketplace images. There are some common fields and similarities, but they are very different animals.

The first big difference is how they pass authentication credentials. As we saw in Chapter 7, the AWS plugin allows us to use environment variables to pass in the AWS Access Key and Secret Key to authenticate with AWS. The Azure provider does not support this method and requires you to pass in all four attributes to authenticate using a Microsoft Entra (formerly Azure Active Directory) Service Principal. Those four attributes are:

- **Tenant ID:** Unique identifier for the Microsoft Entra Tenant
- **Subscription ID:** Unique identifier for the Microsoft Azure Subscription
- **Client ID:** Unique identifier for the Microsoft Entra Service Principal we will use as the identity of Terraform
- **Client Secret:** Secret key for the Microsoft Entra Service Principal

	source "azure-arm" "vm" {
			
	  client\_id       = var.arm\_client\_id
	  client\_secret   = var.arm\_client\_secret
	  subscription\_id = var.arm\_subscription\_id
	  tenant\_id       = var.arm\_tenant\_id
			
	  ...
			
	}

The above code shows how the four Microsoft Azure credential attributes are passed into the Azure builder using input variables.

	source "azure-arm" "vm" {
	
	  ...
	
	  image_offer     = "0001-com-ubuntu-server-jammy"
	  image_publisher = "canonical"
	  image_sku       = "22_04-lts"
	
	  ...
	
	}

The above code shows how we reference the Azure marketplace version of the Ubuntu 22.04 Virtual Machine. Notice how, unlike in the AWS version where we used a data source of an `amazon-ami` to look up the same image in a specific AWS region, we don’t need to do this on Microsoft Azure because of the way Azure structures marketplace image there is no need to look up the region-specific unique identifier for the Virtual Machine Image.


	source "azure-arm" "vm" {
	
	  ...
	
	  location                     = var.azure_primary_location
	  communicator                 = "ssh"
	  os_type                      = "Linux"
	  vm_size                      = var.vm_size
	  allowed_inbound_ip_addresses = [var.agent_ipaddress]
	
	}

The last part of the Azure builder should look very familiar to the AWS version. In the above code, we see the same `communicator` attribute set to `ssh`, a `vm_size` attribute that corresponds to the AWS equivalent `instance_type`, and an `allowed_inbound_ip_addresses` attribute that corresponds to the AWS equivalent `temporary_security_group_source_cidrs` which pokes a whole in the Security Group to allow the machine that GitHub Actions is executing on access to the temporary Virtual Machine that Packer provisions.

## Operating System Configuration

The configuration of the Operating System to install software dependencies (like .NET 6.0), copy and deploy our Application Code’s deployment package to the correct location in the local filesystem, configure a Linux service that runs on boot, and set up local user and group with necessary access for the service to run as. 

I expand on these steps in detail in the corresponding section in Chapter 7, so I encourage you to review this section if you want to refresh your memory.

## Platform Specific Build Tasks

Packer provides a way for you to execute provisioners only on particular builders. This allows you to accommodate platform-specific differences even within the operating system configuration.

In Microsoft Azure, we need to execute a platform-specific command as the last and final step before Packer shutdowns the Virtual Machine and creates the image. Those of you with experience setting up Microsoft Windows Virtual Machine Images will be familiar with a utility called `sysprep`. This tool is used to prepare a Virtual Machine to have an image created from its disk. Although we are not using a Windows Operating System, Microsoft Azure needs us to execute a similar command to prepare our Linux Virtual Machine to have an image made.

	provisioner "shell" {
	  execute_command = local.execute_command
	  inline = ["/usr/sbin/waagent -force -deprovision+user && export HISTSIZE=0 && sync"]
	  only = ["azure-arm"]
	}

The archaic `waagent` command is of little importance. You just need to know that this command needs to be executed last in order for the Virtual Machine Image that Packer builds to be bootable when you launch a new Virtual Machine from the image. However, do take notice of the `only` attribute, which takes a `list` of `string`. The only value we have set in this `list` is `azure-arm`. This indicates to Packer that this provisioner only needs to be executed when building images using that plugin. As we know, the same Packer template can be used to do multi-targeting, which means you can build multiple images in the same template targeting multiple different cloud platforms or regions. This means you can build the same virtual machine image simultaneously on AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud. You could even build the same Virtual Machine Image on AWS in all 30+ regions--not exactly practical, as there are much better ways to replicate Virtual Machine Images across Regions, but it can be done.