# Laying the Foundation

Our story continues through the lens of Söze Enterprises, founded by the enigmatic Turkish billionaire Keyser Söze. Our team has been hard at work building the next-generation Autonomous Vehicle orchestration platform. Our initial strategy involved minimizing change to allow the team to focus on driving features into our product. However, our elusive CEO had other ideas and pushed us to adopt container technology to make our product more flexible and scalable going forward. Working with Keyser, there is never a dull moment, but managing such radical change so quickly can be frustrating.

Meanwhile, in Davos, Switzerland, with the World Economic Forum in full swing, Keyser has a chance encounter at the espresso bar with Werner Vogels whom he immediately hits it off with. When Werner gets a glimpse of Keyser’s immense vision for the Autonomous Vehicle platform, he casually suggests that maybe Keyser shouldn’t concern himself with infrastructure at all and that leveraging AWS’ serverless offerings could free him from the shackles of infrastructure management to allow him to focus on his grand vision.

Thanks to Werner’s insights and Keyser's whimsical decision-making, our team veers deeper into Amazon Web Services, explicitly transitioning from Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) to AWS Lambda for serverless computing. This might require a complete re-think of our application architecture, but it could free us from the significant operational overhead of managing low-level infrastructure.