# 2. Reading and Writing Local Files

There are many situations when reading or writing files can be very useful to simplify how Terraform integrates with other tools by creating configuration files, scripts, or any other artifact required for your infrastructure deployment. To produce the desired output, you can define the content using templated files, input variables, or other expressions within your HCL code.

Terraform has a utility provider called `local` that provides this functionality. This provider has two resources and two Data Sources named `local_file` and `local_sensitive_file`. 

Why not just use the function? Functions do not participate in the dependency graph, so when you use the `file` or `template_file` functions, you cannot use them with files generated dynamically during a Terraform operation. Therefore, if you plan on generating and using a file within Terraform, you should always use the `local` Provider's Resources.

## 2. Writing Files

The `local_file` Resource (and corresponding `local_sensitive_file` Resource) allows you to create a new file at a target location specified in the `filename` attribute. There are several options for sourcing the content, either by using dynamically generated content inside Terraform or an existing file.

- `content`: allows you to pass any string as long as it is UTF-8 encoded--using simple strings from Resource outputs, local variables, or functions to generate a string.
- `content_base64`: This attribute allows you to pass binary data encoded as a Base64 encoded string.
- `source`: This attribute allows you to pass a path to an existing file from which you want to read its contents. When using this attribute, you copy the original file to a new location.

```
	resource "local\_file" "foo" {
	  content  = "foo!"
	  filename = "${path.module}/foo.bar"
	}
```

In the above code, we are setting the `content` attribute to a simple constant string and using the `${path.module}` special token to specify the current Module's working directory as the output location for a file with the name of `foo.bar`. 

Be careful when destroying, especially if you dynamically generate the file’s contents inside Terraform using a `jsonencode`,  `yamlencode`, or any other method—you may run into issues because of the way Terraform handles dependencies on this resource type. 

Also, be aware when writing sensitive data to files, as it can pose a security risk. Likewise, filesystem access or I/O failures can create opportunities for additional points of failure when executing Terraform.

Given these common pitfalls, generating file contents using Terraform can still be extremely effective. One such scenario is generating YAML inventories for Ansible, which can be an excellent way of integrating Terraform and Ansible as part of a broader maintenance process for long-lived environments that need configuration management changes at the Operating System level.

## 3. Reading Files

The `local_file` Data Source (and corresponding `local_sensitive_file` Data Source) allows you to read the contents of an existing file and output its contents in a variety of formats that you can use as inputs to other Resources and Modules within your codebase. This capability is similar to what the `file` function can do but provides a few advantages.

First, it can create a stand-alone block referenced multiple times from multiple Resources without repeating the filename's path in the equivalent function call. Creating a central reference to the local file can make your code more maintainable by making the dependencies on the file more apparent to both Terraform and humans.

Second, by leveraging the Data Source, you immediately have several ways to output the data, including Base64 string, SHA, and MD5 options. Leveraging these output options, you can avoid additional nested function calls to perform the same encoding operations.

```
	data "local_file" "foo" {
	  filename = "${path.module}/foo.bar"
	}
```

In the above code, we access an existing file within the Module's current directory with a `foo.bar` filename. We can then access the file’s raw content by using the `content` output of the Data Source or any of the other encoding options mentioned earlier.