# 1. Overview

Depending on how you and your organization plan on leveraging the cloud, you will likely work with one or more of three paradigms for provisioning infrastructure: Virtual Machines, Containers, or Serverless. Each paradigm has different benefits and detractors that you must consider when selecting them for your solution architecture. Still, it is crucial to recognize that each paradigm has its own time and place that makes it worthwhile. In this book, I hope to help you learn how to leverage Terraform to deploy sophisticated solutions in these paradigms on the three significant hyperscalers (at the time of writing).

Each of these paradigms has specific concepts that transcend cloud platforms that you—as a practitioner and an architect—need to understand to design and implement solutions using Terraform.

Virtual Machines are a standard service on every cloud platform because most organizations would like to leverage the cloud with their existing applications with minimal change. Virtual Machines enable these organizations to have complete control of the configuration of their environment from the Operating System up. With this low level of control, organizations can move applications to cloud infrastructure with minimal change yet ultimate control.

This approach is practical because Virtual Machines are a concept and architecture well-known by most IT organizations. Organizations looking to migrate to the cloud probably already use virtual machines in their on-premises data centers. 

That means that as you automate that infrastructure in the cloud, you’ll need to understand the core concepts and common architectural patterns. 

With Virtual Machines, the good news is that most of the anatomy is relatively similar across cloud platforms, so if you know what you’re looking for, there is a good chance you will find the corresponding service—or Terraform resource—that implements that particular aspect of the solution. There may be subtle differences between cloud platforms that you must learn through detailed analysis and optimizing your solutions. Still, if you understand the basic concepts, it’ll be pretty easy to map them across the cloud platforms and get productive—using Terraform—relatively quickly. 

In this book, we will build an end-to-end solution using Virtual Machines on AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform. To do so, you must understand some critical concepts that transcend cloud platforms to help you navigate the architecture and relevant Terraform resources within the respective cloud platform’s Terraform provider.