# 2. Networking

All Virtual Machines live on a network, and each cloud platform has a corresponding service that handles this aspect of the solution. A network itself is relatively simple to create. It only needs one primary piece of information: the network address space, a block of IP addresses that fall within a contiguous range. 

An IP address is just made up of 32 bits. These bits are grouped into octets and translated into integers between 0 and 255. IPv4 has four octets in a single IP address, resulting in over four (4) billion addressable IP addresses. In IPv6, there are sixteen octets and many more IP addresses.

CIDR notation is a method for representing IP address ranges as contiguous blocks. A CIDR block comprises an IP address starting the range and a prefix length separated by a forward slash (e.g., `/`). For example, `10.0.1.0/24` represents a range of IP addresses starting with `10.0.1.0` through `10.0.1.255`—256 IP addresses. The `10.0.1.0` is the starting IP address, and the `24` is the number of bits that should be in common. Since an IP address is composed of 32 bits and each decimal within the IP address represents 8 bits, 24 bits would mean that three (3) of the four (4) octets are shared within the range and only the last digit changes. Since the last digit ranges from 0 to 255, that gives us 256 IP addresses starting with `10.0.1.0` and going through `10.0.1.255`.

Several reserved IP address ranges exist for private networks. `10.0.0.0/8` and `172.0.0.0/12` are the most common in the enterprise, while I’m sure you’ve encountered `192.168.0.0/16` at home.

Getting familiar with CIDR notation and understanding the impacts of selecting different-sized prefixes is essential. Usually, a `/16` is the largest (65,536 IP addresses) and `/28` the smallest (16 IP addresses) prefix supported by cloud platforms—but it does vary—so you should check your cloud platform’s documentation but more importantly, consider your requirements and if you have an in-house networking team at your organization, by all means, consult them when settling on a range that fits for your solution.

Usually, organizations maintain a list of IP address ranges allocated to different teams or applications to prevent IP address conflicts. This practice is critical when starting in the cloud for the first time at your organization if you already have an on-premise network. If you use a default—like `10.0.0.0/16`—or always use the same address range, you could be hurt if you ever want to connect your project to other networks within your organization.

Although it can vary by cloud platform, you usually provision a Virtual Network within a specific region—as on AWS and Azure—but with Google Cloud Platform, a Virtual Network is global and spans all regions.