# 5. Network Security

Once you have a Virtual Network and a set of subnets, each with its own purpose and resources within it, you will likely need to apply security controls to ensure that only the expected network traffic can pass between resources within the various subnets. 

Most cloud platforms have some manifestation of this concept, but they may come in different names. They may have other mechanisms for attachment—either on a Subnet, Virtual Machine, or Virtual Network Interface Card (NIC). They include inbound and outbound rules. They can also come in stateless and stateful forms and sometimes support both Allow and Deny rules, while other times only support Allow rules.

Azure and AWS provide a lower-level mechanism focusing primarily on the physical network layer and a higher level focusing on more of the logical application layer. Google Cloud wraps both concepts into one structure and calls them Firewall Rules.

AWS has Network Access Control Lists (NACLs), which attach to subnets and control the flow of network traffic between subnets. As a result, they only work on network address ranges—not AWS resources like network gateways or service endpoints. They are stateless, which means that, in most cases, you need the inbound and outbound rules to match for connectivity to succeed. 

In contrast, AWS has Security Groups, which are stateful, only support Allow rules, and allow you to route traffic between different network address ranges and AWS resources using their unique identifiers. Security Groups can be logically attached to a subnet or directly onto Virtual Machines (EC2 Instances), but AWS evaluates them at the Virtual Machine level. Attaching a Security Group to a subnet only results in an implicit cascading attachment of that Security Group to all Virtual Machines within that subnet.

Azure similarly has two constructs for constraining network traffic: Network Security Groups (NSGs) and Application Security Groups (ASGs). Network Security Groups are in many ways a combination of AWS’ NACLs and Security Groups but shed some logical attachment capabilities with a focus on the physical network layer. Application Security Groups are logical and can be associated with a Virtual Machine through NICs. Just like AWS NACLs, you can think of NSGs as controlling the flow of traffic between networks, while AWS Security Groups and Azure’s Application Security Groups both focus on controlling traffic at a finer grain—with an application-centric lens—between resources within the network.

Google Cloud has one construct, Firewall Rules, that are stateful but also support Allow and Deny rules, but they can be attached to a Virtual Network, a Region, or Globally.