# 1. Overview

GitHub is just one option for source control management software. We’ll be using it in this book, but it’s important for you to understand that the concepts and patterns implemented using GitHub are consistent no matter what source control provider you end up using for your projects. There may be small differences between the syntax and mechanisms that implement and execute pipelines, but the source control management system is just `git` under the hood.

An important part of source control management is how to use it in a structured way on a team—large or small. These are conventions that your team can use so that you have consistent expectations across the team about how new features are shepherded through your development process and into production.

GitFlow is a common model that uses a combination of well-known, long-lived, and consistent naming conventions for short-lived branches. As we will see in the next section, it is highly customizable and a bit of a ‘Choose-Your-Own-Adventure’ which is why it has become one of the most common operating models for development teams no matter the size.

We’ll also look at a miniature variant called GitHub Flow, which is an example of Trunk-Based Development. This model advocates for keeping the `main` branch always deployable and minimizing the use of long-lived branches. Instead of creating long-lived stable branches for various purposes and designs, developers work directly on the `main` branch using only short-lived Feature branches that are quickly merged back into `main`. 

In the next section, we’ll take a closer look at GitFlow to see what the developer experience would look like and how it would integrate with the automation systems that we build using Terraform.





