# 2. Provider

The `provider` meta-argument is a reference that allows you to specify under which provider context you would like to deploy the resource. The scope of the context is dependent on the provider you are using. The two most common scopes are which region you are deploying to within a public cloud and what authentication credential you are using.

You will need to understand the specific scoping mechanism of your providers. This book will use the `aws`, `azurerm`, and `google` providers. Each provider defines its scope differently. The scope of the AWS provider is an AWS Account and an AWS Region. The scope for the Google Cloud provider is a Google Cloud Project and a Google Cloud Region. The Azure provider is scoped only to an Azure Subscription.

```
	provider "aws" {
	  region = "us-east-1"
	}
	
	provider "aws" {
	  alias  = "secondary"
	  region = "us-west-1"
	}
```

Then, when attaching to resources, if you do not specify the `provider` meta-argument, all the resources you declare will be provisioned by Terraform using the default `aws` provider. 

```
	resource "aws_instance" "foo" {
	
	}
```

When you want to provision to the `secondary` instance of the `aws` provider, you will need to declare it using the `provider` meta-argument on the resource block itself.

```
	resource "aws_instance" "bar" {
	
	  provider = aws.secondary
	
	}
```

Therefore, when using AWS and GCP to do multi-region deployments, you will see the `provider` meta-argument to provision resources to different AWS and GCP regions. However, on Azure, you'll only see the `provider` meta-argument to provision across multiple subscriptions—a very exotic deployment type.