# 3. Preparation

Go check out the study guides for both the associate and professional exams. The study guide has helpful links to the official documentation, which should augment the contents of this book. Remember, this book was intended to be a practical guide for those who want to master Terraform to provision cloud architecture. That doesn’t necessarily mean memorizing every nook and cranny of the Terraform command line interface. I specifically chose to focus on skills that will help you start developing real-world solutions no matter what cloud and cloud computing paradigm you’ll be working with.

The exam will likely have tricky edge cases or obscure commands that are seldom used, so be ready for that, but I wouldn’t dedicate a tremendous amount of time to it. Make yourself a quick cheat sheet of some of these obscure commands and how to use them. Employ flashcards to help you memorize them if you feel like you need to. If you have a solid understanding of Terraform’s architecture and are hands-on with it, you should do well.

My best advice is to study through hands-on experience. Take the projects in this book, and feel free to clone them from my GitHub repositories, but to maximize your own mastery, develop them from scratch in your own repository on GitHub. Re-create them, provision yourself and the environment, and then improve upon them. Think about how you would like to modularize components within them to be more reusable. Go ahead and implement those modules, and then refactor your environment to use your new modules. Treat your environment as if it were production and try to minimize the impact on your environment by making sure you avoid replacing resources in your existing environment while trying to refactor to use your new modules. 

I sat for the exam while I was at HashiConf in October of 2023. I didn’t study, I didn’t prepare, I didn’t even read the study guide. I passed with a score of 84.21%. I was pretty happy about it. Am I telling you this to brag? No, well, maybe a little, but seriously, my point is that the best way for you to prepare is by doing. How was I able to pass without studying at all? Because I’ve been hands-on with Terraform for several years and know it inside and out. Did I know every obscure command within the Terraform command line interface? Absolutely not. Had I ever used Terraform Cloud? Not for one New York minute. You have to ask yourself—do you want to pass an exam? Or do you want to upskill yourself and become a dangerous force in the cloud automation space with one of the most powerful automation tools in the world? I think the answer is clear. Focus on the primary objective with gazelle-like intensity and augment it with a bit of studying more obscurities, and you will do well.