# 1. Laying the Foundation

Our story continues through the lens of Söze Enterprises, founded by the enigmatic Turkish billionaire Keyser Söze. Our team has been hard at work building the next-generation Autonomous Vehicle orchestration platform. Previously, we had hoped to leapfrog the competition by leveraging Azure’s rock-solid platform, leveraging our team’s existing skills, and focusing on feature development. The team was just getting into their groove when a curveball came down from above.

Over the weekend, our elusive executive was influenced by a rendezvous with Scott Guthrie, the President of Microsoft’s Cloud + AI Division, in Abu Dhabi. The Yas Marina Circuit was buzzing with energy. The sun was setting, casting a golden glow over the track as fans and celebrities gathered for the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. While in the exclusive Paddock Club, Keyser spotted Scott “Gu” in his iconic red polo near the hors d'oeuvres. Scott excitedly shared news about some recent improvements to the Azure Kubernetes Service. Keyser was enchanted by the prospect of more efficient resource utilization, leading to improved cost optimization and faster deployment and rollback times, and he was hooked. His new Autonomous Vehicle platform needed to harness the power of the cloud, and container-based architecture was the way to do it. So, he decided to accelerate his plans to adopt Cloud Native Architecture! 

The news of transitioning to a container-based architecture means reevaluating their approach, diving into new technologies, and possibly even reshuffling team dynamics. For the team, containers were always the long-term plan, but now things need to be sped up, which will require a significant investment in time, resources, and training.

As the team scrambles to adjust their plans, they can't help but feel a mix of excitement and apprehension. They know that they are part of something groundbreaking under Keyser’s leadership. His vision for the future of autonomous vehicles is bold and transformative. And while his methods may be unconventional, they have learned that his instincts are often right. In this chapter, let’s explore this transformation from virtual machines to containers using Microsoft Azure.