# 4. Kubernetes

As we saw in Chapter 8 and Chapter 11, we built out the Kubernetes deployments using the Terraform provider for Kubernetes on AWS and Azure, respectively. We'll follow the same approach, building on the infrastructure we provisioned in the previous section.

## Provider Setup

As we saw in Chapter 11, there is not much that changes when executing Terraform using the Kubernetes provider to provision resources to the Kubernetes control plane. We still authenticate against our target cloud platform, follow Terraform’s core workflow, and pass in additional input parameters for platform-specific resources that we need to reference. Most notably, information about the cluster and other Google Cloud Platform services like our Secrets Manager and other details that might need to be put into Kubernetes ConfigMaps can be used by the pods to point themselves at the endpoint of their database.

As we saw in Chapters 8 and 11, when we accomplished the same task on Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure, I am using a layered approach to provision the infrastructure first and then provision to Kubernetes. As a result, we can reference the Kubernetes cluster using the data source from the Terraform workspace that provisions the Google Cloud infrastructure. This allows us to access important connectivity details without exporting them outside of Terraform and passing them around during deployment.

```
data "google_container_cluster" "main" {
  name     = var.cluster_name
  location = var.primary_region
}
```

As you can see, in the above code, when using the data source we only need to specify the cluster name and its target region. Using this data source we can then initialize the `kubernetes` provider

```
provider "kubernetes" {

  token                  = data.google_client_config.current.access_token
  host                   = data.google_container_cluster.main.endpoint
  client_certificate     = base64decode(data.google_container_cluster.main.master_auth.0.client_certificate)
  client_key             = base64decode(data.google_container_cluster.main.master_auth.0.client_key)
  cluster_ca_certificate = base64decode(data.google_container_cluster.main.master_auth.0.cluster_ca_certificate)

}
```

This configuration varies slightly from the provider initialization techniques used with AWS and Azure in previous chapters with the addition of the `token`. Similarly, to how we initialized the `helm` provider on other cloud platforms we can pass the same inputs in order to setup the Helm provider.

## Workload Identity

As we discussed in previous Chapters 8 and 11, where we implemented workload identity on both Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure, we need a way for our Kubernetes workloads to be able to implicitly authenticate with Google Cloud services and resources. In order to do so, we need an identity provisioned within Google Cloud, which we saw in the previous section of this chapter, but we also need something provisioned within Kubernetes that will connect our pod specifications to the Google Cloud Service Account. 

```
resource "kubernetes_service_account" "main" {
  metadata {
    namespace = var.namespace
    name      = var.service_account_name
    annotations = {
      "iam.gke.io/gcp-service-account" = var.service_account_email
    }
  }
  automount_service_account_token = var.service_account_token
}
```

The above code will provisions the Kubernetes service account that will complete the linkage with the Google Cloud configuration that we provisioned in the previous section.