# 2. Terraformer

Terraformer is an open-source tool developed by Google that helps with the process of importing existing cloud infrastructure into Terraform configuration and state. It supports various cloud providers, including the ones we’ve explored in this book. Naturally, Google Cloud is well-supported, including its main competitors, AWS and Azure, but a myriad of other Terraform providers also have support. Unlike the built-in capabilities of Terraform, this tool was designed to generate Terraform code and Terraform state based on the existing resources spread across your cloud landscape.

This tool, and others like it, works by leveraging the cloud provider’s REST APIs in order to gather information about the various resources that have already been provisioned. You just need to point it in the right direction and give it some guard rails in order to narrow its field of vision. You only pick up the resources that you want to bundle together into the same Terraform workspace and Terraform state file.

The key command line arguments that allow you to scope Terraformer to just the resources you are interested in are Resource Types, Regions, and Tags. Depending on the provider, there may be limitations in Resource Type support, so it is best to check the current list of supported resources by using the following command:

	terraformer list --provider=aws

This will help you inform how you will query the particular cloud platform. For example, when importing resources from AWS, we can determine that `s3` and `ec2_instance` are supported Resource Types.

	terraformer import aws --resources=s3,ec2_instance --regions=us-west-1

On Azure we’ll using Azure specific Resource Types and will often use the `--resource-group` argument to specify this Azure-specific logical structure to import resources.

	terraformer import azure --resources=resource_group,vm --resource-group=your-resource-group

Likewise, on Google Cloud, we’ll use the Google Cloud Project, which is the logical structure that corresponds to Azure Resource Groups, to narrow the field.

	terraformer import google --resources=gcs,compute_instance --projects=your-project-id --regions=your-region

Tags play an important role as they provide a very fine-grained way to import exactly what we want into our Terraform workspaces. 

	terraformer import google --filter="Name=tags.Environment;Value=Production"

We can specify very specific collection of tags that we pre-seed in our environments to get the most efficiency during the import process.
