# 3. Azure Export Tool

There are other commercial and platform-specific tools that might do a better job than general-purpose tools like Google’s Terraformer. One example of this is the Azure Export Tool for Terraform. This tool provides greater query-ability into the Azure platform and allows you to customize code generation to leverage both the `azurerm` provider and the `azapi` provider, which are two Terraform providers that can both be used to provision and manage Azure resources. 

Like Terraformer, the Azure Export Tool has several mechanisms for querying existing resources that should be included in the code generation process. It supports additional import options such as a subscription-wide import and eliminates the need to specify Resource Types which can help speed up the process for Azure code generation by using a combination of `azurerm` and `azapi` providers since the `azapi` provider enables full support of every Azure resource there is no Resource Type based compatibility concerns that can’t be filled by using the `azapi` provider as a poly-fill when `azurerm` resources are unavailable.

The command to import all the resources within a given Azure Resource Group would simply be:

	aztfexport resource-group rg-foo

It can be run in an interactive or non-interactive mode. The interactive mode allows the end user to review the resources that will be imported and mapped to their corresponding references in the Terraform code.

While the Azure Export Tool isn’t as widely known as the Terraformer project, it does have some interesting features that are useful within the context of Azure and the broader Terraform community as well. One example is the append feature that allows you to perform targeted code generation and append existing resources into an existing Terraform workspace.
