# 1. Overview

A Virtual Machine is a software emulation of a physical computer. Just like a regular computer, it runs an operating system and whatever applications you install on it. Ultimately, it does run on physical hardware, but in the cloud, the cloud platform is abstracting the physical hardware and the hypervisor managing the Virtual Machines from the user.

Virtual Machines are most commonly available on cloud platforms in two flavors: Linux and Windows—with various current and historical versions supported through marketplace offerings on the cloud platform itself.

The primary configuration attributes of a Virtual Machine are its size, the Virtual Machine Image to use as its Operating System disk, additional data disks, and network configuration.

Cloud Platforms use an SKU to create a standard configuration that dictates the size and hardware profile of the Virtual Machine. This pattern is typical across cloud platforms, but the SKU names follow different naming conventions. The cloud platforms do have a similar organization system with sub-categories such as “General Purpose,” “Compute-Optimized,” “Memory-Optimized,” and those with particular hardware components like Graphics Processing Units (GPUs)

The Virtual Machine Image is a disk image of a pre-configured Operating System, which can include additional software pre-installed depending on the image’s purpose. The Virtual Machine Image is an essential component in the automation of Virtual Machines, and we’ll go into further depth on this later.