# 2. Packer

We go into great detail on how we implement our Packer templates provisioners to install our .NET Application Code onto a Linux Virtual Machine. If you skipped Chapters 7 through 9 due to a lack of interest in Amazon Web Services (AWS), I can’t hold that against you-—particularly if your primary interest in reading this book is working on the Google Cloud cloud platform. However, I would encourage you to review the corresponding section within Chapter 7 to see how we use Packer’s Provisioners to configure a Debian-based Linux Virtual Machine with our .NET Application Code.

## Google Cloud Plugin

As we discussed in Chapter 4, Packer—like Terraform—is an extensible command line executable. Each cloud platform provides its own plugin for Packer that encapsulates the integration with its services.

	packer {
	  required_plugins {
	    googlecompute = {
	      source  = "github.com/hashicorp/googlecompute"
	      version = "~> 1.1.2"
	    }
	  }
	}

In Chapters 7 and 10, we saw how to declare the Packer Plugin for AWS and Azure (respectively) as a required Plugin. The above code demonstrates how to instead declare the Google Cloud’s plugin—which, at the time of writing, the latest version was 1.1.2.

The Google Cloud plugin for Packer provides an `googlecompute` builder that will generate Google Cloud Compute Images by creating a new Virtual Machine from a base image, executing the provisioners, taking a snapshot of the Google Cloud Instance's Boot Disk and creating an Google Cloud Compute Image Image from it. Like the AWS and Azure plugins, this behavior is encapsulated within the Google Cloud's builder.

Just as the other plugins encapsulated the logic to build Virtual Machines on their respective platforms, its configuration was oriented using terminology specific to each platform. Packer does not try to create a standard builder interface across cloud platforms—rather, it isolates the cloud-specific configuration within the builders. This keeps things simple for users who know the target platform well and allows the builder to take advantage of any platform-specific features without additional layers of complexity by trying to rationalize the syntax across every platform. 

As a result, the structure of the AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud builders is radically different in almost every way—from how they authenticate to how they look up marketplace images. There are some common fields and similarities, but they are very different animals.


	source "googlecompute" "vm" {
	
	  project_id   = var.gcp_project_id
	  source_image = "ubuntu-pro-2204-jammy-v20220923"
	  ssh_username = "packer"
	  zone         = var.gcp_primary_region
	  image_name   = "${var.image_name}-${var.image_version}"
	
	}

The above code shows how we reference the Google Cloud marketplace version of the Ubuntu 22.04 Virtual Machine. Notice how, unlike the other providers that have rather complex lookup mechanisms, Google Cloud simply has a single string to represent the desired image. Each approach produces the same outcome: we select a marketplace image hosted by the cloud platform to use as our boot disk, but we see different organizational philosophies manifesting in the three different clouds.

## Operating System Configuration

The configuration of the Operating System to install software dependencies (like .NET 6.0), copy and deploy our Application Code’s deployment package to the correct location in the local filesystem, configure a Linux service that runs on boot, and set local user and group with necessary access for the service to run as. 

I expand on these steps in detail in the corresponding section in Chapter 7, so I encourage you to review this section if you want to refresh your memory.