# 2. Writing a Dockerfile

Docker uses a simple syntax that you can use to define the basic information about your container. This basic structure includes what base image to build onto (`FROM`), who the author is (`MAINTAINER`), files to copy and commands to execute (`COPY` and `RUN`), and what the entry point process should be (`CMD`). 

Much of this is similar to the structure of a Packer template, except for the entry point process. With Packer, it's just a Virtual Machine; whatever processes are running based on how you configure it will be running. With Docker, you need to explicitly state what process to start because containers run a single process in isolation.

You can also configure the runtime further by setting the working directory, adding environment variables, and exposing network ports.

A simple `Dockerfile` looks like this:

	# Use an official Python runtime as a parent image
	FROM python:3.7-slim
	
	# Set the working directory in the container to /app
	WORKDIR /app
	
	# Copy the current directory contents into the container at /app
	COPY . /app
	
	# Install any needed packages specified in requirements.txt
	RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt
	
	# Make port 80 available to the world outside this container
	EXPOSE 80
	
	# Run app.py when the container launches
	CMD \["python", "app.py"]

Notice that we are building from a base image called `python:3-7slim` and copying the current folder's contents to the container's `/app` directory. This step will copy the `app.py` script into the container so that it is available when we set it as the execution point at the bottom of the file. This Python script sets up a web server and exposes it to port 80.