# 1. Locals

Terraform allows you to perform sophisticated operations on a variety of types. Sometimes, it's necessary to use intermediate values that store a calculated value you can reference across your code base. It's essential to understand how to do this, what data types are available when working with internal data inside a module, and when defining the contract between your Terraform modules.

The `locals` block allows you to declare local variables. You can think of these as member variables in a class or local variables in a function, except they merge into one construct within the flattened scope of a Terraform workspace.

You can define a local variable anywhere in your HCL code simply by declaring a local block and declaring and defining a local variable within it. You must specify a value when declaring a local variable.

```
	locals {
	  foo = "bar"
	}
```

The above code declares a local variable called `foo`. Terraform infers the type to be `string` simply by use of double quotes.

You can declare as many `locals` blocks as you want in any `.tf` file. Like in other languages, you can nest local variables inside the value of other local variables. You can do this by using the `local` object prefix. Using the element's type to reference it from elsewhere in the code is similar to referencing resources and data sources. 

```
	locals {
	  foo = "foo"
	  bar = "bar"
	  foobar = "${local.foo}${local.bar}"
	}
```

It can be tricky to remember, but locals are always declared in a plural block name `locals` versus `local` and referenced in the singular `local.*`. The mixture of singular and plural terminology can seem strange as most other blocks in Terraform are declared in a singular block and referenced in the singular. 