# 2. Primitive Types

By design, HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL) supports a limited number of data types. This design encourages simplicity in your code and avoids overly complex logic around type conversion. In principle, you should avoid doing complex logic in HCL and rely on the consistent input-output model ingrained into Terraform's modular architecture to do any heavy lifting outside of Terraform and pass in a known good value as input in one of the supported types.

There are only three primitive types: `string`, `number`, and `bool`.

## String

While there are `number` and `bool`, their use or function is not very complicated. However, `string` can become very difficult very quickly. If you go spelunking in GitHub for HCL code, you will see a predisposition for complex `string` manipulation operations embedded in the code. Just because you can doesn't mean you should. This is the way. 

Avoid complex string manipulation where possible, and when it is necessary, encapsulate it into a local value so that it can be easily output for testing purposes before you run `apply`. 

### String Interpolation

String interpolation is a pervasive operation, but try to avoid it where possible. Avoid using a complex expression when you can pass in a reference to a single `string` object.

```
	resource "aws_vpc" "main" {
	  cidr_block       = "10.0.0.0/16"
	
	  tags {
	    Name = "${var.application_name}-${var.environment_name}"
	  }
	}
```

In the above example, we pass in two variables and concatenate them to construct the `Name` tag, commonly used by the AWS Console. 

```
	locals {
	  name = "${var.application_name}-${var.environment_name}"
	}
```

Alternatively, we can declare a `local` that constructs the name and directly sets the tag with the value of the `local`.

```
	resource "aws_vpc" "main" {
	  cidr_block       = "10.0.0.0/16"
	
	  tags {
	    Name = local.name
	  }
	}
```

It simplifies our resource block for the AWS VPC by eliminating the string interpolation syntax (consisting of two double quotes `"` and two interpolation blocks `${ ... }`). It also creates a reusable `local` that we can use to tag our resources consistently. This can improve the readability and, ultimately, the maintainability of the code, especially if the string needs to be reused across multiple resources.

### String that Spans Multiple Lines

Depending on the provider and resource you use, sometimes you must embed large strings spanning multiple lines. Terraform uses a `heredoc` style of declaring multi-line strings.

```
	locals {
	
	  shopping_list = <<EOT
	apples
	oranges
	grapes
	bannans
	EOT
	
	}
```

String content can be structured or unstructured. If HCL supports the structure of your string, you should consider using native syntax to represent the content. The most common cases of structured content embedded in HCL are `JSON` or `YAML` formatted strings because many cloud platforms have services that define their configuration schema that you must supply in either of these two formats. In this case, you should use the `jsonencode` or `yamlencode` functions to convert objects declared in native HCL into the appropriately formatted string. More on this later in this chapter.

Another consideration is if there is an excellent reason to maintain the content in its original string format. Here are a couple of situations where this might be the case:
- **Too Large:** If the content is substantial and thus quite laborious to convert into HCL, it may not be cost-effective to do the conversion.
- **Reusable Artifact**: If you are trying to share the content between two tools, you'll want to maintain it in the original format (either `JSON` or `YAML`). Keeping two copies of the same configuration in HCL and one in the original format won't make sense. In this situation, you can have both tools use the same content—in its original form—by having Terraform reference the content from a file using the `file` function.