# 3. Collection Types

  HCL supports only two collection types: `list` and `map`. 

## List
If you have done any development before working with Terraform or programming with HCL, you will no doubt be familiar with the concept of an array. Every programming language uses different syntaxes, types, and classes to represent this concept. A list is an ordered list of objects where items in that list can be accessed using the index of the desired item.

C# and Java:
```
	string[] array = { "westus", "eastus" }
```

Go
```
	array := [4]string{"westus", "eastus"}
```

Python
```
	array = ["westus", "eastus"]
```

JavaScript
```
	var array = ["westus", "eastus"];
```

HCL
```
	array = ["westus", "eastus"]
```

Notice any similarities with any of the languages we've looked at? Python is the clear winner in the similarity contest. JavaScript is a close second—simply with some extra semi-colons and such.

As might be expected, items contained within an HCL `list` are accessed similarly across all of these languages.

```
	a = array[1]
```

The value of `a` would be `eastus`

The `list` is a fantastic object type for situations where we want to provision a corresponding resource for each item in the `list`. 

## Map
Like the concept of an array, a `map` in HCL corresponds to another prevalent collection type that goes by many names in other programming languages. From `Dictionary` to `KeyValuePair` and back to `Map`. They all share this concept of a `key`—guaranteed unique within the collection—and associated with a corresponding `value`. To look up the `value`, you don't access it with its index within the collection; you can access it with the `key` value. 

```
	networks = {
	  "westus" = "10.0.0.0/16"
	  "eastus" = "10.1.0.0/16"
	}
```

When we want to access the value for the particular network, we specify the region name we are using:

```
	a = networks["westus"]
```

The value of `a' would be '10.1.0.0/16`.

This solution only works when the collection's key is unique. In the above example, this allows us to quickly set up one network for every region we chose; however, with the current design, we cannot do that if we want to set up two networks for the same region. 

```
	networks = {
	  "westus" = "10.0.0.0/16"
	  "eastus" = "10.1.0.0/16"
	  "eastus" = "10.2.0.0/16"
	}
```

We can't because adding a second entry for any region would produce an error. The error would be subtle. When we attempted to access `eastus` values in our `map`, only their last matching entry would come back. Therefore, it is the same as if `10.1.0.0/16` did not exist. Having such a discrepancy in your code and what Terraform provisions can lead to confusion and misaligned expectations, so remember that when working with `map`, you should reserve it for situations where the `key` is unique.