# 2. Static Virtual Machines

When setting up a single virtual machine or even a group of them with different roles and responsibilities within a solution's architecture, there is a process of configuration that needs to happen to get each Virtual Machine into the state required to perform its duties as part of the solution.

This configuration includes:

1. Operating System installation
2. Operating System configuration
3. Software updates & security patches installed
4. 3rd Party Software installation
5. 3rd Party Software configuration

Of course, each of these steps may change depending on the role of the Virtual Machine within the solution. The further down the order, the more likely the configuration may change, with Operating System installation being the most stable and 3rd Party Software configuration having the most diversity depending on the Virtual Machine's role. 

For example, a simple two-tier architecture requiring a Java Web application to talk to a PostgreSQL database would have two roles. One role installs the Java Web and Application Server, and another installs the PostgreSQL database. Both Virtual Machines might share the exact Operating System, configuration, and security patches in this scenario. Still, when it comes to 3rd Party Software, one needs Java Web / Application Server software while the other needs PostgreSQL Database Server software.

Each role requires different configuration steps, such as installing software packages, setting environment variables, updating configuration files, creating user accounts, and setting permissions.

When working with the cloud, you pass this configuration to the Virtual Machine by specifying an OS Disk image. Depending on the disk image used will determine whether the Virtual Machine will spin up with nothing but a clean install of Ubuntu 22.04 or with a fully working Java Web application server.

Each cloud platform provides a large set of disk images that you can use to start Virtual Machines for various purposes. The most common are baseline images with a specific version of an Operating System installed, like Windows Server 2019, Ubuntu 22.04, or RedHat Enterprise Linux.

With so many marketplace images providing a baseline Operating System install, you can spin up a Virtual Machine with Ubuntu 22.04, install the Java Web Application software, configure it precisely to your specifications, and create a new Virtual Machine Image. This new Virtual Machine Image will boot up as a Java Web Application Server rather than a brand new installation of Ubuntu 22.04–which means you are that much closer to using this Virtual Machine to host your web application.

You can use automation technologies that manage this configuration to perform the actions you might perform manually, assuming you were starting from a clean Operating System installation. Several automation tools focus on this problem—you might be surprised that Terraform is not one of them. While Terraform can provide this configuration through several different techniques, that's not its primary focus. Usually, Terraform should work together with another tool with this focus and, between the two of these tools, decide on how to share the responsibility of deploying this configuration.
