# 4. Custom Virtual Machine Images

After you have configured your Virtual Machine to the point that it is ready to take on its role within the system with only some minor final configuration changes, you can capture a snapshot of the OS Disk and create a Virtual Machine Image from it that you can use to spin up additional Virtual Machines. Using this image, these Virtual Machines will already have the configuration you have set up previously, with no need to set everything up again.

This approach has the benefit of startup speed. Because you already did most of the work when you built the image—that work doesn’t have to happen every time you spin up a new Virtual Machine. You only need to wait for the cloud platform to launch the Virtual Machine. It will have everything you need installed and ready to go without waiting for the Configuration Manager to set everything up.

The most common tool used to do this is called Packer, and it’s also an open-source product published by HashiCorp. 

While you can write Packer templates in JSON or HCL. However, you should use the latter as it makes managing and organizing your code much easier. A Packer template consists of three parts:

1. Builders that establish connectivity to a target platform to build a Virtual Machine.
2. Provisioners that provide instructions must be executed on the Virtual Machine before creating an image.
3. Post-processors execute after the Builders and Provisioners and perform any last-minute operations before creating the artifact.

Packer’s provisioners include two main types: 

1. Script Execution: Execute scripts in various shell environments supporting Windows and Linux.
2. File: Upload files or directories from the local environment to the Virtual Machine.
3. Flow Control: Pause execution or trigger a Windows Restart to let settings take effect
