# 2. Blast Radius

When importing existing resources and bringing them under management using Terraform, it’s important to think carefully about the organization of those resources and how you want to compartmentalize them into working infrastructure-as-code solutions in the long term. This is the design principle of minimizing the “Blast Radius” of your Terraform modules, and when we are importing resources, we are essentially establishing the boundaries of our root modules or Terraform workspaces.

This is the ideal time to perform this design as they have yet to be organized. It’s important to think this through as it will affect how easy it is to manage, update, and replicate parts of your infrastructure, depending on how you group resources together.

You should consider the function the resources will play and who will be responsible for managing them. Suppose a central team is responsible for maintaining a certain part of the architecture. In that case, you may want to consider organizing these resources together within the same Terraform workspace to make it easier to control access and reduce friction between teams.

Use tags to narrow your resource filter as you use Terraformer or other tools to generate code within your Terraform workspaces. Pre-seeding the cloud resources with tags fit for purpose will help you maximize the effectiveness of the Terraform import tools you use. This is especially important in AWS where you lack logical containers for resources like those that are present on Azure and Google Cloud with Resource Groups and Projects, respectively.