# 4. Blue / Green

Another option is to consider alternatives to importation. Importing is a messy business and very error-prone. If you have critical infrastructure that was manually provisioned, you might want to consider replacing it with newly provisioned environments that are already under terraform management. 

This approach is called a Blue / Green Deployment. It is a well-known release management strategy where the existing “Blue” environment is replaced through the construction of a new “Green” environment, and after the Green environment is fully tested and ready to go, we perform a cutover operation to transition from the Blue environment to the Green environment.

You can set up new environments and transition workloads and applications into those environments. This will allow you to have a clean separation between environments that were provisioned manually without proper governance in place and those that you followed best practices. Slowly transition your workloads a piece at a time to the new well-organized environment until the legacy environment is just shut off.

Generating code will likely generate code of extremely poor quality which will require extensive refactoring. While some of this will be simple input variable extraction, moving resources into modules will become extremely tedious as the complexity of the environment increases. The effort to perform an import, refactor, transform, might actually be greater than writing from scratch and cutting over gradually over time.

When you weight the cost of putting the legacy environment into “keep the lights on” mode while you build out the new world order this allows your organization to maintain some normalcy and slowly adapting to the change of using infrastructure-as-code managed environments overtime rather than in one fell swoop.