# 3. Deployment

Now that Terraform has provisioned the Google Cloud infrastructure we need for our serverless solution, we need to take the final step of deploying both deployment artifacts to the appropriate locations in Google Cloud.

We will use .NET and Google Cloud custom tools to produce the artifacts and deploy the front end. However, the back end will be provisioned by Terraform.

## Frontend

As we saw in other chapters, our .NET application code needs to follow a Continuous Integration process where the code is built and tested using automated unit testing and other built-in quality controls. Nothing changes there, except that we need to add some special handling to the deployment artifact that these processes produce to ensure it is available to our GitHub Action's job that deploys the workload to the appropriate location.

	      - name: Upload to Google Cloud Storage Bucket
	        working-directory: ${{ env.DOTNET_WORKING_DIRECTORY }}/upload-staging
	        run: |
	          gsutil -o Credentials:gs_service_key_file=../gcp-terraform.json -m cp -r . gs://${{ needs.terraform.outputs.frontend_bucket_name }}

We need to ensure that we authenticate with Google Cloud and target the right Google Cloud Project with the Google Cloud Storage Bucket we want to target. The Google Cloud command line tool that we are using is called `gsutil`. It can be configured to obtain credentials in several ways, but it is probably the safest to specify the path to a Google Cloud credentials file. We can use the GitHub Action’s secret to generate a file that we then reference when we call `gsutil`. Once done, we can execute `gsutil` to recursively upload all the files within the staging directory.

## Backend

In order to deploy the Google Cloud Function, we need to modify our Terraform to provision a location for the zip archive to be uploaded to and specify the zip archive containing the source code of our application code.

	resource "google_storage_bucket" "backend" {
	
	  project  = google_project.main.project_id
	  name     = "${var.application_name}-${var.environment_name}-backend-${random_string.project_id.result}"
	  location = "US"
	
	}

After the Google Cloud Storage Bucket has been provisioned, we must upload the deployment package.

	resource "google_storage_bucket_object" "deployment" {
	  name   = "deployment.zip"
	  bucket = google_storage_bucket.backend.name
	  source = "deployment.zip"
	}

The above code will reference the `deployment.zip` file in Terraform’s root directory and upload it to the Google Cloud Storage Bucket. 

That's it! Now, our application has been fully deployed to Google Cloud Functions! 
