# 2. Accessing External Resources

Like many utility providers, the `external` provider is tiny. It only has one data source of the same name as the provider: `external`. As the name implies, this data source allows you to integrate with 3rd party components. It enables you to execute a local program, pass its input, and process the output. This capability can be advantageous when you want to obtain dynamic configuration from an external source, perform complex transformations on inputs you receive from other providers, and integrate with 3rd party tools that you want to integrate with Terraform.

This provider is very particular about the runtime requirements of the program that you specified. First, the program must run successfully by exiting with a code zero. If the program returns a non-zero code, the provider will sound the alarm and scramble an error message to Terraform. Second, the provider expects both the input and the output to be in JSON format.

Using the `external` provider works perfectly when your 3rd party program fulfills all these requirements. It is a happy coincidence indeed! If you are integrating with such a program, that's great. However, this provider is the right choice when you author custom scripts or programs that explicitly meet these contractual obligations. 

To be as cross-platform as possible, the ideal programming language to write these custom scripts would be Python or Go. With these programming languages, you can create a lightweight script, designed and built, that is fit for the purpose of talking to the external system of your choice and providing Terraform-friendly outputs and error handling.

```
	data "external" "example" {
	  program = ["python", "${path.module}/example-data-source.py"]
	
	  query = {
	    # arbitrary map from strings to strings, passed
	    # to the external program as the data query.
	    id = "abc123"
	  }
	}
```

In the above code, we are executing the Python program on the local machine--this could be our laptop or the build agent of our CI/CD pipeline.