# 3. When you want to Make Something from Nothing

Terraform and its providers are open-source projects. That means that we are at the mercy of friendly internet strangers who are keeping pace with the changes made to the platforms and technologies that we hope to automate. While Terraform has fantastic coverage across a wide set of public cloud platforms and technologies—sometimes it needs a little help. There might be a small feature that lacks support that you can’t configure natively through the resources available in the provider. Sometimes, those small tweaks play a critical role in configuration, and we need to draw dependencies on them from other resources that can be provisioned natively through the Terraform provider. That’s where the `null_resource` comes into play.

## 2. Null Resource


The `null_resource` allows us to leverage meta-arguments like `provisioner` to perform local and remote script executions. This allows you to execute critical command line scripts that must be completed before Terraform can continue its plan. As a result, the `null_resource` has no attributes like other Terraform resources. Its only attribute is a `list(string)` called `triggers`. When any strings within this array change, the `null_resource` is replaced. This is an important lifecycle control that you need to consider when configuring the `provisioner` blocks you attach.

## 3. Time Sleep

There is another technique of doing nothing. There can be situations where the action you try to trigger is non-deterministic—meaning you won’t know exactly when it finishes. This could be out of context or a true technical limitation of the resource or shim you use. The `time` provider offers a resource called `time_sleep` which lets you create a sleep timer. You must declare `depends_on` meta-arguments to ensure that the sleep timer is invoked between the required resources.

```
	# This resource will destroy (potentially immediately) after null_resource.next
	resource "null_resource" "previous" {}
	
	resource "time_sleep" "wait_30_seconds" {
	  depends_on = [null_resource.previous]
	
	  create_duration = "30s"
	}
	
	# This resource will create (at least) 30 seconds after null_resource.previous
	resource "null_resource" "next" {
	  depends_on = [time_sleep.wait_30_seconds]
	}
```

Delayed `destroy` can be done using a different attribute called `destroy_duration`.