# 1. Overview

GitHub Actions is a CI/CD service offered by GitHub that provides a platform for you to implement automation around your source control management process no matter what workflow you choose.

In order to hook into GitHub Actions you need to define YAML files that specify the tasks that you want automated. These files are called Workflows” and they are stored in the `.github/workflows` directory of your source code repository. The basic anatomy of a workflow consists Jobs. Jobs have Steps. Steps can be a simple script that you execute or something more complex packaged together called an Action.

	jobs:
	  build:
	    runs-on: ubuntu-latest # The type of runner (virtual machine) that the job will run on
	
	    steps:
	    - name: Checkout code # Name of the step
	      uses: actions/checkout@v2 # Use a pre-built action to checkout the current repo
	
	    - name: Run a command
	      run: echo "Hello, World!" # Commands to run
	
	  test:
	    needs: build # Specifies that this job depends on the 'build' job
	    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
	
	    steps:
	    - name: Checkout code
	      uses: actions/checkout@v2
	
	    - name: Run tests
	      run: |
	        npm install
	        npm test**

The above code has two jobs: `build` and `test`. The jobs are grouped under the `jobs:` section and each job has steps grouped under the `steps:` section. You can customize the image that your job runs on using the `runs-on` attribute. This allows you to specify a container image that is customized to your needs with the correct Linux distribution or software configuration.

By default, a step simply executes a bash script using the `run` attribute, but you can utilize an action by specifying the action type with the `uses` attribute.

To execute Terraform, you simply need it installed on your agent. This can be done easily using an Action provided by HashiCorp called `hashicorp\setup-terraform@v2`. The code snippet below demonstrates how to do this while specifying the specific version of Terraform that you want to use.

	steps:
	- uses: hashicorp/setup-terraform@v2
	  with:
	    terraform_version: 1.5.5

There are additional attributes, but they are for more edge cases and are out of scope for the purposes of this book. I recommend you check out the documentation for the action to check out all the different options available.
[https://github.com/hashicorp/setup-terraform][1]

You must always store sensitive data as secrets to ensure that the data is not exposed in the logs. This can easily be accomplished by leveraging GitHub Environments or other secret management services.

[1]:	https://github.com/hashicorp/setup-terraform