# 4. Serverless Workloads

In Serverless Architecture, the deployment process can be greatly simplified. You typically have two main pipelines to manage the Serverless framework and surrounding services and the actual function code themselves.

## Terraform Apply Pipeline

This pipeline is responsible for provisioning the underlying infrastructure required to support the Serverless workloads. It uses Terraform to define and manage the infrastructure components. The pipeline may create resources such as load balancers, API gateways, event triggers, and other logical components that serve as the foundation for Serverless functions. These are often lightweight cloud services that are extremely quick to provision.

## Serverless Deployment Pipeline
This pipeline is responsible for deploying individual Serverless functions to the target platform (e.g., AWS Lambda or Azure Functions). Each Serverless function typically has its own pipeline to handle its deployment, testing, and versioning. This maintains autonomy between the different components and allows teams to organize ownership that aligns with how they manage their codebase. The pipeline really only involves packaging the function code, defining the configuration, and deploying it to the cloud platform of choice.

The Serverless approach simplifies the deployment and management of code, and developers can focus more on writing the application logic while relying on the automated deployment pipelines to handle infrastructure provisioning and Serverless function deployments.