# 5. Terraform Tools

There are a ton of tools out there to help improve Terraform code both in terms of beauty, functionality and maintainability. I won't boil the ocean here but I will mention some critical tools that are absolutely required for any Terraform continuous integration process.

## Formatting

During development you should install the HashiCorp Terraform plugin for Visual Studio Code. This will enable a ton of helpful productivity features within your editor but it will also automatically execute Terraform's built-in formatting function `terraform fmt` on save of each file. This will drastically help promote consistent formatting within your codebase. This is a proactive approach that is dependent on the developer to take steps to configure their development environment properly. 

In order to verify each developer is employing this technique to keep your project's Terraform code neat and tidy you need to use a linter as part of your pull request process. Adding `tflint` to your pull request process will help prevent poorly formatted code from ever making it into your `main` branch!

## Documentation

Now that the code is formatted properly, we should generate some documentation for our modules. This is useful whether you are writing root modules or resuable modules. The tool `terraform-docs`, when pointed at a Terraform module director will generate a markdown `README` file that documents the key aspects of your Terraform module including version requirements for both Terraform and the providers you employ as well as details on the input and output variables. This tool is ideal to setup as a pre-commit operation to ensure that your documentation is automatically generated everytime code is merged. It reads annotations that are built-in to HCL such as `description`, `type`, `required` and any default values.

https://terraform-docs.io/user-guide/introduction/

## Security Scanning

Checkov is a static code analzer that can scan your Terraform plan files to detect security and compliance violations. It has thousands of built-in policies spanning many platforms but most importantly including the cloud platforms that we explore in this book: AWS, Azure and Google Cloud. However, at the time of writing, the policy coverage is most comprehensive for AWS, with both Azure and Google Cloud with significantly less coverage.

https://github.com/bridgecrewio/checkov
