# 3. Working with Time

In Terraform, the `time` Provider offers several capabilities that make it easier to handle various scenarios where Resource lifecycle management is dictated by time. 

While most cloud providers offer much better solutions for resource scheduling, there are still cases where time plays a crucial role in the provisioning of resources. This situation often involves certificates where you need to set a fixed or rolling window for the certificate to expire. In this situation, you can use either a specific date/time in the future or one that is relative to the current date/time.

## Current Date / Time

Sometimes, you want to capture the current date and time--which you may like to use for the effective date of a secret's value. There are two methods to obtaining the current date in Terraform: a function and the `time_static` Resource.

```
	locals {
	  option1 = timestamp()
	}
```

The above code demonstrates using the `timestamp()` function. The below code shows how to use the `time_static` Resource from the `time` provider.

```
	resource "time_static" "current_time" {}
```

Both approaches will generate the current date/time on the first time you run `apply`. The difference is that the `timestamp` function will always generate a current date/time stamp on every subsequent `apply`. This makes it more ideal for scenarios like tagging a resource with its Last Modified Date which could be useful to determine when the last time the resource was touched by Terraform. Another common scenario is triggering resource updates that you want to happen every time, but try to avoid this because this creates perpetual churn in your solution.

At the same time, the `time_static` Resource will maintain, in State, the original date time stamp at the first Terraform `apply`. This can be useful for lifecycle management of the resources to determine when the deployment was originally created or setting policies for backups, scaling, or decommissioning based on age.

## Fixed Date / Time

A string representation of the date/time can be used to create a specific time in the future using an absolute date/time.

```
	locals {
	  future_date = "2024-05-04T00:00:00Z"
	}
```

The above code will set the expiration date to May 4, 2024. The format of the string representation of date/time is `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ`. 

Another option is using the `time_static` resource and setting the `rfc3339` attribute, which is rarely used due to its limited value over simply setting a local.

```
	resource "time_static" "may_the_fourth" {
	  rfc3339 = "2024-05-04T00:00:00Z"
	}
```

## 4. Time Offset
A specific time in the future using a period relative to the current date can be created using `time_offset`. 

```
	resource "time_offset" "certificate_expiration" {
	  offset_years = 1
	}
```

The above code will set the expiration date to exactly one year in the future. There are different attributes to adjust the offset date/time stamp by years, months, days, hours, minutes, and seconds. You can set the `base_rfc3339` attribute to change the date/time to which the offset is relative. This can be a great way to dynamically set certain expiration dates. However, you need to ensure that you routinely run Terraform to keep the target date in the future.

## 5. Rotation
You may need to re-create resources on a regular cadence in several situations. This secret could need to be updated every 90 days or XXX. In these situations, the `time_rotating` Resource provides an advantage over its static siblings, both `time_static` and `time_offset`. 

Time offset seems like the solution for rotation as it is relative to the current date, but just like the `time_static`, it is just another way of calculating a static date/time stamp that Terraform will store in State. The `time_rotating` Resource's superpower is that when the `rotation_days` period expires relative to the original date, you will see that the Resource triggers a re-create.

```
	resource "time_rotating" "certificate" {
	  rotation_days = 90
	}
```

This also requires you to regularly run Terraform to keep the values in the future. If you utilize resources like this, make sure you coordinate with your change management procedures, as they can sneak up on you when you execute a `terraform plan` only to discover you’ve passed the magic date.
