# 2. Data Sources

In its most primitive form, Terraform is about provisioning resources—but as we saw, there is a lot more to it than that. Once Terraform provisions the resources, then what? What happens when you provision a resource by some other means--can you still reference it from Terraform? Resources create something new. Data Sources access something that already exists. 

Data Sources are less prolific but still play a critical role. First, they allow you to reference resources provisioned outside the current Terraform workspace. No matter how they were provisioned—through a GUI, another automation tool, or another Terraform workspace.

```
	data "azurerm_resource_group" "bar" {
	  name     = "rg-foo"
	  location = "westus"
	}
```

Like the resource, a Data Source block’s definition has three parts: the Block Type, the Resource Type, and the Reference Name. In the above example, the Block Type is `data`, the Resource Type is `azurerm_resource_group`, and the Reference Name is `bar`. To create dependencies between resources and data sources, we use the reference name and type to access output values from the data source just like we did with a resource, but we also need to prefix the reference with `data.` to clarify to Terraform whether this reference is to a new item or an existing one.

```
	resource "azurerm_storage_account" "fizzbuzz" {
	  name                     = "stfizzbuzz"
	  resource_group_name      = data.azurerm_resource_group.bar.name
	  location                 = data.azurerm_resource_group.bar.location
	  account_tier             = "Standard"
	  account_replication_type = "GRS"
	}
```

In the above code, we create an Azure Storage Account by referencing the Azure Resource Group named `bar`’s output values called `name` and `location`. 