# 1. Modules

One of Terraform’s most powerful capabilities is its ease of organizing and packaging reusable code, which increases the maintainability of your code base and improves the reusability of common patterns in your architecture.

Traditional developers have it easy—you must simply create a new method to encapsulate a reusable code block. In other infrastructure-as-code tools, doing the same thing is a challenge. In Terraform, all you need is a new folder.

Terraform scopes every module within a folder. When you run `terraform init`, Terraform transforms the current working directory into the root module of the Workspace. You can use modules stored in other folders within the same repository just by using a relative path to reference the module. It is a standard convention within the Terraform Community for storing local modules in a `modules` directory near the root module's directory.

Consider this folder structure:  

- `/terraform`
	- `/modules`
		- `/rando`
	- `/root`

The path to the root module is `/terraform/root`. The path to the `rando` module is `/terraform/modules/rando`.

Consider the contents of the root module:

- `main.tf`
- `outputs.tf`
- `variables.tf`
- `versions.tf`

The above list of files is a typical convention for the file structure of a module. In the `versions.tf` file, you should declare the `terraform` block, which contains both the Terraform version and each of the referenced Terraform providers and their corresponding versions. 

In the `variables.tf` file, you should declare all the input variables this module expects. It's essential to keep all input variables declared in one place to make it easier for the module consumer to understand the contract for this module. 

Likewise, in the `outputs.tf` file, you should be used to declare all the output values that this module will produce. 

Since it is possible to declare input variables and outputs in any `*.tf` file within the folder, nothing prevents you from following this approach. However, you don't want to make other developers scan every file in your module's folder for a `variable` block to get a good understanding of the module's interface.

In the `main.tf` file, you should declare the "meat" of your module. This file is where the magic happens. However, you are not limited to just one file. At your discretion, you can create additional `*.tf` files to better organize more complex modules into relevant sections or groupings of related resources.

We need to understand the relative path to get to the `rando` module to reference the `rando` module from the root module. This relative path is calculated based on the root module's working directory. Therefore, a declaration of the `rando` module would look like this:

```
	module "foo" {
	  source = "../modules/rando"
	}
```

The source meta-argument is a required attribute for every `module` block. You'll notice that declaring a module differs slightly from declaring a resource or a data source. For example, when declaring a module, the resource type is omitted. That's because a `module` block is both the 'Block Type' and the 'Resource Type'. Therefore, besides the module block definition, we only need a Reference Name.

We can reference our module's output values simply by recognizing that `module` is the Resource Type. 

```
	locals {
	  dynamic_name = "foo-${module.rando.result}"
	}
```

As you can see in the above code, we are referencing the `result` attribute on a module called `foo` because modules are not as descriptive of a type; therefore, it's even more important to give more detail in the Reference Name.

Now that we understand the basics for creating and referencing our custom modules, let’s look deeper into the module design question.