# 3. Azure

In Azure, the unique identifier is called the Azure Resource ID, and it takes on a radically different format that is composed using several different landmarks in a cloud resource’s location within Azure. It follows a structured format that includes several components: the subscription, the resource group, the resource provider, a resource type, and a localized resource name.

	/subscriptions/{subscription-id}/resourceGroups/{resource-group-name}/providers/{resource-provider}/{resource-type}/{resource-name}

For example, the Azure Resource ID for an Azure Virtual Machine would look like this:

	/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/rg-foo/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/vmfoo001

In this example, we see the concrete values for each component of the Resource ID’s path.

- **Subscription ID: **This is the unique identifier for your Azure subscription: a GUID (Globally Unique Identifier). In our example, we just use an empty GUID `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000` for the subscription.
- **Resource Group**: This is the name of the resource group that contains the resource. Resource groups are used to organize related resources. In our example, the resource group is `rg-foo`.
- **Resource Provider:** This indicates the type of service or resource in Azure. In our example, `Microsoft.Compute` is the resource provider for Azure Compute services, which includes Azure Virtual Machines.
- **Resource Type:** This specifies the specific resource type within the service. In our example, `virtualMachines` is used for an Azure Virtual Machine. Together the Resource Provider and the Resource Type create a fully qualified Azure Resource Type `Microsoft.Compute\virtualMachines`. 
- **Resource Name:** This is the resource’s name. In our example, the virtual machine is named `vmfoo001`.

Each resource Type within a Resource Provider has subtypes as well delimited with additional slashes such as a Virtual Machine Extension (e.g., `Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/{vm-name}/extensions/{extension-name}`). This naming convention for Azure Resource ID uses a resource path strategy instead of AWS’s prefix and unique identifier strategy. As a result, Azure Resource IDs can get rather long, but they do have a sensible way that they can be deconstructed to gather valuable information about the deployment context of a particular resource, making additional lookups unnecessary.

When using the import command on Azure, it would look like this:

	terraform import azurerm_linux_virtual_machine.foo "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/rg-foo/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/vmfoo001"

The corresponding import block would look like this:

	import {
	  to = azurerm_linux_virtual_machine.foo
	  id = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/rg-foo/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/vmfoo001"
	}

It’s important to remember that the address is the internal object reference within Terraform, and the unique identifier is the external reference to the resource on the target cloud platform.