# 4. Google Cloud Platform

In Google Cloud, the unique identifier for a resource is called the Resource Path, and, like Azure, it is composed of some important landmarks in the cloud resource’s location within Google Cloud. These landmarks differ from Microsoft Azure’s due to the structural differences between the two platforms and other design considerations.

	projects/{{project}}/zones/{{zone}}/instances/{{name}}

For example, the Google Resource Path for a Google Compute Instance would look like this:

	projects/proj-foo/zones/us-central1-a/instances/vmfoo001

In this example, we see the concrete values for each component of the Resource Path.

- **Project ID**: This is the name of the resource group that contains the resource. Resource groups are used to organize related resources. In our example, the resource group is `proj-foo`.
- **Zone:** This indicates the physical location of the resource within a Google Cloud Region and Zone.
- **Resource Name:** This is the resource’s name. In our example, the virtual machine is named `vmfoo001`.

While Google Cloud does have higher-level organizational structures like the Google Cloud Organization and Folders within that organization, a resource path only includes the Google Cloud Project ID. This is similar to Azure’s  Resource ID, which includes the Azure Subscription and Resource Group, as these are logical containers of the resource within the platform. Google opted for a more simplistic path by only including the Project ID. A major difference between Google Cloud’s Resource Path and Azure’s Resource ID is the inclusion of the Zone within the resource path. The zone indicates the resource’s physical location within one of Google Cloud’s regions. Azure’s Resource ID only includes logical structures such as Subscription, Resource Group, Resource Provider, and Type—not physical locations such as Azure Region or Availability Zone.

When using the import command on Google Cloud Platform, it would look like this:

	terraform import google_compute_instance.foo "projects/proj-foo/zones/us-central1-a/instances/vmfoo001"

The corresponding import block would look like this:

	import {
	  to = google_compute_instance.foo
	  id = "projects/proj-foo/zones/us-central1-a/instances/vmfoo001"
	}

It’s important to remember that the address is the internal object reference within Terraform, and the unique identifier is the external reference to the resource on the target cloud platform.
